Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share, per share data,and selected data) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 13,203 $ 12,297 $ 11,825 $ 11,748 $ 11,110 Net investment income 2,062 1,918 1,601 1,264 1,013 Net realized gains (losses) (1,633 ) (61 ) (98 ) 76 197 Losses and loss expenses 7,603 7,351 7,070 8,571 7,690 Life and annuity benefits 399 168 123 143 175 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 3,872 3,226 3,171 2,924 2,824 Interest expense 230 175 176 174 183 Other (income) expense (39 ) 81 (35 ) (25 ) 9 Income tax expense 370 575 522 273 286 Income before cumulative effect 1,197 2,578 2,301 1,028 1,153 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income tax) 4 Net income 1,197 2,578 2,305 1,028 1,153 Dividends on Preferred Shares (24 ) (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) Net income available to holders of Common Shares $ 1,173 $ 2,533 $ 2,260 $ 983 $ 1,108 Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 3.53 $ 7.66 $ 6.90 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 Diluted earnings per share(1) $ 3.53 $ 7.66 $ 6.91 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 39,715 $ 41,779 $ 36,601 $ 31,842 $ 26,925 Cash 867 510 565 512 498 Total assets 72,057 72,090 67,135 62,440 56,183 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 24,241 23,592 22,008 20,458 17,517 Net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts 2,645 537 508 510 494 Long term debt 2,806 1,811 1,560 1,811 1,849 Trust preferred securities 309 309 309 309 412 Total liabilities 57,611 55,413 52,857 50,628 46,338 Shareholders equity 14,446 16,677 14,278 11,812 9,845 Book value per share $ 43.30 $ 48.89 $ 42.03 $ 34.81 $ 32.65 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 60.6% 61.6% 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio(3) 29.0% 26.3% 26.9% 25.0% 25.6% Combined ratio(4) 89.6% 87.9% 88.1% 99.5% 96.3% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 186.1% 144.7% 157.7% 177.5% 182.9% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 332,481,627 330,447,721 327,232,022 297,299,883 285,485,472 Cash dividends per share $ 1.09 $ 1.06 $ 0.98 $ 0.90 $ 0.82 (1) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to holders of Common Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. Net premiums earned for life insurance and reinsurance were $1,170 million, $368 million, $274 million, $248 million, and $226 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain significant operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is now headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries. We serve the property and casualty (P&C) insurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health and life insurance to individuals in select countries. Our reinsurance operations include both P&C and life companies. At December 31, 2008, ACE had total assets of approximately $72 billion and shareholders equity of approximately $14 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Redomestication to Zurich, Switzerland In July 2008, our shareholders approved proposals submitted by our Board of Directors to transfer our domicile from the Cayman Islands to Zurich, in Switzerland, our new jurisdiction of incorporation (the Continuation). As a result of the Continuation, we are deregistered in the Cayman Islands and are now subject to Swiss law. In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. All Common Shares are registered shares with a current par value of CHF 33.14 each. Notwithstanding the change of the currency in which the par value of Common Shares is stated, we continue to use U.S. dollars as our reporting and functional currency for preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. For the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8 for more information. 37 Table of Contents The Combined Insurance Acquisition On April 1, 2008, ACE acquired all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries from Aon Corporation for $2.56 billion. Combined Insurance, founded in 1919 is headquartered in Glenview, Illinois, and is a leading underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, and Asia Pacific. Combined Insurance serves close to four million policyholders worldwide. This acquisition has diversified our accident and health (A&H) distribution capabilities by adding a significant agent base, while almost doubling our A&H franchise. We believe this will provide significant long term growth opportunities. Our A&H operations have represented an increasing portion of our business in recent years. Within our A&H operations (including Combined Insurance), our primary business is personal accident. We are not in the primary health care business. Our products include, but are not limited to, accidental death, accidental disability, supplemental medical, hospital indemnity, and income protection coverages. With respect to our supplemental medical and hospital indemnity products, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are, therefore, insulated from rising health care costs. ACE recorded the Combined Insurance acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. The interim Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Combined Insurance beginning April 1, 2008. The acquisition generated $928 million of goodwill and other intangible assets, based on ACEs purchase price allocation. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment as the products are similar to our current life operations. The results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment as the products have similar economic characteristics and are distributed outside of the North American insurance markets. Refer to Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8 for more information. Market Conditions The property and casualty insurance industry began 2008 with excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital. Since then, natural catastrophes and financial market losses have destroyed a great deal of this excess capital. Additionally, downgrades and government ownership have impaired the ability of a number of companies to deploy their capital and operate in the same manner as they have in the past. The P&C underwriting environment, particularly rates, improved during the fourth quarter of 2008 and into the first quarter of 2009. This trend was more obvious in certain specialty and stressed classes. The rate of change varies by territory, where the greatest improvements have been in North America, followed by the London company market, Australia, and Latin America. We believe that due to our strong balance sheet, geographic presence, and product breadth, we are beginning to benefit from a flight to quality and where rate is adequate, we are writing more business, improving our position on accounts, and gaining market share. Where rate is not adequate, we are walking away and in some classes, continuing to shed business. While the relationship between rates to risk exposure is improving, exposure is declining due to recession, resulting in improved underwriting margins but not necessarily more premium. In North America, we are seeing substantially more opportunity to quote business as a result of market turmoil. Submissions are up significantly, though our quote to close ratios have dropped modestly given our pricing discipline. In those lines where rate is adequate, we are benefiting from the weakness of others by improving our position on accounts, moving into primary lead or first excess position for example, in excess casualty, directors and officers liability (D&O), environmental and medical liability. We are also gaining new business in certain lines where we already enjoy a strong lead position such as our E&O business and risk management division. There are also classes where our retention rates and new business writings are being negatively impacted by continued inadequate pricing such as both large account and catastrophe exposed property, E&S casualty, and due to recession, construction related business. Our international business has also seen improvement in the fourth quarter of 2008, our P&C business in original currency experienced its best quarter of the year, increasing six percent over the third quarter, while A&H was up 15 percent over the same period. We deliberately shrank our reinsurance business in 2008, due to the competitive market conditions. However, during the first quarter of 2009, Global Reinsurance experienced improved pricing in many classes, and although U.S. casualty remains competitive, we gained revenue from improved signings due to competitor weakness and more clients looking for a reinsurance solution to solve a capital need. In reinsurance, we are noticing more clients willing to pay more though in most cases not dramatically more to have ACE on their program. Although, the relationship between rates and risk exposure is improving and rates are improving, we cannot predict with any certainty how long these conditions will continue. We believe that the current recession is impacting exposures and clients insurance budgets and this along with foreign exchange weakness relative to the U.S. dollar, will negatively impact growth rates in 2009. 38 Table of Contents We are continuing to invest in people and infrastructure to grow our presence in lines of businesses globally where we see an opportunity for ACE to grow market share at reasonable terms. We are also continuing to invest in our enterprise risk management capability, our systems and data environment, and our research and development capabilities. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB); and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). The reserves provide for liabilities that exist for the Company as of the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2008, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.2 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $24.2 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $106 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses Reinsurance Recoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,831 3,480 7,351 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,516 ) (3,582 ) (5,934 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 280 113 167 Balance at December 31, 2007 37,112 13,520 23,592 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,944 3,341 7,603 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,899 ) (3,572 ) (6,327 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,367 ) (387 ) (980 ) Losses and loss expenses acquired 386 33 353 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 39 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 16,583 $ 6,539 $ 10,044 $ 15,625 $ 6,077 $ 9,548 IBNR 20,593 6,396 14,197 21,487 7,443 14,044 Total $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The following table segregates the loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,180 $ 1,367 $ 1,813 $ 2,901 $ 1,256 $ 1,645 Loss expenses 264 92 172 230 55 175 IBNR 2,456 1,084 1,372 2,824 1,095 1,729 Subtotal 5,900 2,543 3,357 5,955 2,406 3,549 Casualty Case reserves 8,700 3,178 5,522 8,747 3,150 5,597 Loss expenses 3,871 1,779 2,092 3,348 1,544 1,804 IBNR 17,455 5,144 12,311 18,070 6,193 11,877 Subtotal 30,026 10,101 19,925 30,165 10,887 19,278 A&H Case reserves 536 121 415 370 68 302 Loss expenses 32 2 30 29 4 25 IBNR 682 168 514 593 155 438 Subtotal 1,250 291 959 992 227 765 Total Case reserves 12,416 4,666 7,750 12,018 4,474 7,544 Loss expenses 4,167 1,873 2,294 3,607 1,603 2,004 IBNR 20,593 6,396 14,197 21,487 7,443 14,044 Total $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. 40 Table of Contents We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns and industry data as needed. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary, qualitative, and subjective factors. Among some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and / or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made where appropriate to how consideration in method selection impacted 2008 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly development periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data 41 Table of Contents is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as they often have a sufficient history and volume of claims experience to be credible. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line and establish an actuarial central estimate at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuaries, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: Segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; Extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; Historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; Perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and Nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are 42 Table of Contents reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.2 billion and represents eight percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2008. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2008 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2008. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2008 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more judgmental relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset the impact of recent favorable loss development. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2008 calendar year arose from the 2006 and 2007 accident years. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance segments experienced $220 million, $173 million, and $142 million of favorable development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2006 and 2007 accident years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2006 and 2007 accident years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2003 2005 accident years that resulted from a detailed review. The changes to the ultimate losses were principally related to recognition of the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. 43 Table of Contents For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2008, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is often too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2008 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2008 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. While recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations, we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible for us to consider moving to loss based projection methods in setting reserves for the more recent years. Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to 44 Table of Contents the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2008 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2008 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to alter either our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. For the 2007 and 2008 origin years, our best estimate reflects what we believe to be our exposure to credit crunch related claims (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature accident years, typically 2004 and prior, we relied upon paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2008 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically in more mature origin years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2008 that differed notably from the expected loss emergence and where such deviations were deemed significant enough to warrant revising the projections for certain product lines. The nature of the changes to the assumptions in 2008, and the associated impact on the prior accident years, varies by product line. For example, in Insurance North American the changes to recorded estimates for national account casualty lines, medical risk lines, and Canada P&C operations involved assigning greater credibility to actual loss experience; i.e. more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods mainly on accident years 2005 and prior. This resulted in $32 million, $46 million, and $51 million of favorable development, respectively. Similarly, for the ACE International division within Insurance Overseas General, there was $159 million of favorable development mainly on accident years 2005 and prior as more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2008, refer to Prior Period Development. While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $45 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $270 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and gross limits of $150 million or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million and gross limits of $50 million or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $150 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. 45 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2000 2006 by approximately $254 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.7 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $217 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.5 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2008, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.5 billion, consisting of $836 million of case reserves and $1.7 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2007, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $740 million of case reserves and $1.9 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. 46 Table of Contents On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2008, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $811 million, compared with the $836 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2008, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of December 31, 2007. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an independent actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. Management takes full responsibility for the estimation of its A&E liabilities. As a result of our internal review, we increased our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million, while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate net Brandywine liabilities that are little changed from a comparable study in 2006. We also decreased our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million, while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life Insurance and Reinsurance segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, and endowment products. We establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. 47 Table of Contents As part of purchase accounting related to the Combined Insurance acquisition, we applied fair value accounting to the future policy benefit reserves acquired. An additional liability resulted primarily as a result of using current interest rates and an adjusted risk margin. We applied this fair value adjustment by essentially unlocking the future policy benefit reserves and then locking in the new assumptions which will be subject to the same premium deficiency analysis as the original reserves. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to present value the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively DAC) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. DAC is tested along with the future policy benefit reserves regularly for premium deficiencies of which we have not identified any significant deficiencies. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had 48 Table of Contents not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $363 million of net premiums earned in 2008, comprised of $250 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $113 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts subject to the terms of the reinsurance contracts. The recognition of reinsurance recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, this estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross reserves. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses. The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded reserves are allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded reserves are not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 49 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on capital charges previously applied by a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which we have not adopted a rating equivalent, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses as well as the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Losses andLoss Expenses Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,108 $ 10,143 $ 253 Reinsurers not rated 493 408 136 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 196 180 125 Captives 1,650 385 28 Other structured settlements and pools 1,061 1,061 49 Total $ 14,508 $ 12,177 $ 591 At December 31, 2008, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e, from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $171 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 50 Table of Contents Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using observable inputs where available such as the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services; or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. If significant observable inputs are unavailable, we rely on unobservable inputs to determine fair value. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities for which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities for which fair value is below cost) for other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in the consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. Given current market conditions, and in light of recent general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we have qualitatively evaluated our application of the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. Similar to prior quarters, we evaluated investments in our portfolio where cost exceeded fair value and made certain judgments as to our ability to recover our cost. Our analysis in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 required we consider carefully the duration and severity of decline and the root causes thereof. Specifically, we further evaluated whether declines were related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions, and therefore more likely to be temporary, or were instead related to specific credit events or issuer performance, and therefore more likely to be other than temporarily impaired. Using this refined evaluation process resulted in a lower dollar value of investments in an unrealized loss position being deemed other than temporarily impaired in comparison to our previous evaluation process. We believe the underlying credit quality of the portfolio supports the use of our modified approach. Refer to Note 4 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, which includes a table that summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are the result of changing or unforeseen facts and circumstances (e.g., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), deterioration of the credit worthiness of the issuer or its industry, or changes in regulatory requirements. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of the portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2008, for all securities in a loss position was $3.2 billion with $684 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months ($20 million was related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2008 included write downs of $1.1 billion of which $760 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $141 million and $214 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The other than temporary impairments recorded in 2008 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates resulting from volatility and widening credit spreads; issuer defaults, of which Lehman Brothers was the most significant to us; and significant declines in global equity markets. The other than temporary impairments recorded in 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). 51 Table of Contents Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2008, our net deferred tax asset was $1.8 billion. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the valuation allowance of $35 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives Under reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum income benefits associated with variable annuity contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net realized gains (losses) in the period of the change pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133). We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with AICPA Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non traditional Long duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). Changes in this reserve are included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and SOP 03 1 benefit reserves is reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying annuities through lapses, annuitization or death. At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. Refer to Note 2j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices and other assumptions on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. 52 Table of Contents A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Prior to 2008, we had very limited actual reported experience related to annuitization rates and relied primarily on judgment to determine this assumption. During 2008, actual annuitization experience, as well as available industry experience, has developed to allow us to refine this assumption. As a result of our normal quarterly reserve review we made several assumption changes in our variable annuity valuation models in the fourth quarter of 2008, the most meaningful of which were related to mortality and annuitization behavior. These changes, which had both a positive and negative impact, were made in response to a combination of emerging new and validated experience on the ACE business and industry data we obtained in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in aggregate benefited net income by approximately $470 million. The vast majority of which is related to the impact of assumption changes on the fair value liability affecting all future cash flows on a present value basis in income in the current period. Net realized losses for 2008 included $650 million for GMIB reinsurance excluding realized gains of $164 million on derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These losses were principally driven by decreasing interest rates and equity markets. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Net realized losses for GMIB reinsurance included $185 million and $NIL for 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the capital required to support the variable annuity guaranty business is approximately $400 million. If the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index were to drop from its level of 903 at December 31, 2008 to a level of 700, all else being equal, any additional capital required would be approximately offset by the increase in value of currently held hedge assets. However, we would be required to post additional collateral. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All variable annuity guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract but some examples of typical contract provisions include: Annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured Account or Guaranteed Value, for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB) and GMIBs Annual Annuitization Rate Limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible Account or Guaranteed Value, for GMIBs A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $280 million, and $70 million, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparty, on a daily basis. We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. ACE Tempest Life Re did not quote on new or renewal variable annuity transactions in 2008 and the aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5% 10% annually. 53 Table of Contents Note that GMIB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first annuitization eligibility Percent ofliving accountvalues 2009 2% 2010 &lt;1% 2011 &lt;1% 2012 1% 2013 21% 2014 25% 2015 11% 2016 5% 2017 10% 2018+ 24% Total 100% The following table provides the historic cash flows under these policies for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 123 $ 125 less Paid Claims 67 9 $ 56 $ 116 Living Benefits Premium $ 145 $ 107 less Paid Claims $ 145 $ 107 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 268 $ 232 less Paid Claims 67 9 $ 201 $ 223 Amounts represent past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. Death Benefits (GMDB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring GMDBs. Approximately 65 percent of our GMDB guaranteed value has an annual claim limit expressed as two percent of the total account value reinsured. This limit falls as account values fall in a declining market. Using our current mortality assumptions we expect approximately $164 million of claims and $108 million of premium on death benefits during 2009. Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring predominantly GMIBs and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB), collectively known as Living Benefits. Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. These policyholders begin to become eligible in 2013. Using our current mortality assumptions we expect approximately $2 million of claims and $129 million of premium on living benefits during 2009. 54 Table of Contents In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, equal to their statutory ceded reserves. ACE Tempest Life Re maintains sufficient qualified assets to meet its funding requirements. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets acquired, was $3.6 billion at December 31, 2008. The ACE INA and Combined Insurance acquisitions represent approximately 87 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment tests in 2008, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the North American and international divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value models apply multiples of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model allocates our market capitalization to each reporting unit. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Fair Value Measurements We partially adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157) on January 1, 2008. FAS 157 defines fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establishes a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with FAS 157 valuation principles. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all investments have been valued in accordance with FAS 157. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. Volatility and widening credit spreads during the second half of 2008 adversely affected the values of certain of our securities. However, we believe there was sufficient market activity to price securities under FAS 157 in a manner consistent with prior periods. At December 31, 2008, our Level 3 assets represented approximately five percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and three percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2008, our Level 3 liabilities represented approximately 21 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and less than two percent of our total liabilities. During 2008, we transferred $176 million out of Level 3. The following is a description of the valuation measurements used for our financial instruments (Levels 1, 2, and 3) carried or disclosed at fair value, as well as the general classification of such financial instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. 55 Table of Contents Fixed maturities with active markets such as U.S. Treasury and agency securities are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. For fixed maturities that trade in less active markets, including corporate and municipal securities, fair values are based on the output of pricing matrix models, the significant inputs into which include, but are not limited to, yield curves, credit risks and spreads, measures of volatility, and prepayment speeds. These fixed maturities are classified within Level 2. Our pricing methodologies incorporate back testing of valuation techniques as a standard part of our process. Fixed maturities for which pricing is unobservable are classified within Level 3. Equity securities with active markets are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. For non public equity securities, fair values are based on market valuations and are classified within Level 2. Short term investments, which comprise securities due to mature within one year of the date of purchase that are traded in active markets, are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. Securities such as commercial paper and discount notes are classified within Level 2 because these securities are typically not actively traded due to their approaching maturity and, as such, their cost approximating par value. Fair values for other investments, principally other direct equity investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships, are based on the net asset value or financial statements and are included within Level 3. Equity securities and fixed maturities held in rabbi trusts maintained by ACE for deferred compensation plans, and included in Other investments, are classified within the valuation hierarchy on the same basis as our other equity securities and fixed maturities. The fair value of our investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. included in Investments in partially owned insurance companies is based on a quoted market price and is classified within Level 1. Fair values for investments in partially owned insurance companies based on the financial statements provided by those companies used for equity accounting are classified within Level 3. For actively traded investment derivative instruments, including futures, options, and exchange traded forward contracts, we obtain quoted market prices to determine fair value. As such, these instruments are included within Level 1. Forward contracts that are not exchange traded are priced using a pricing matrix model principally employing observable inputs and, as such, are classified within Level 2. Our position in interest rate and credit default swaps is typically classified within Level 3. For GMIB reinsurance, we estimate fair value using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The cumulative effect of partially adopting FAS 157 resulted in a reduction to retained earnings of $4 million related to an increase in risk margins included in the valuation of certain GMIB contracts. The fair value depends on a number of inputs, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, credit risk, current account value, changes in market volatility, expected annuitization rates, changes in policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. The effect of changes in key market factors on assumed lapse and annuitization rates reflect emerging trends using actual data available from cedants. For treaties with limited experience, rates are established in line with data received from other ceding companies adjusted as appropriate with industry estimates. We view our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of a cumulative long term economic net loss relatively small. However, adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an adverse impact on both our life underwriting income and our net income, which may be material. Because of the significant use of unobservable inputs including policyholder behavior, GMIB reinsurance is classified within Level 3. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Reinsurance of GMIB and GMDB guarantees. We maintain positions in other derivative instruments including option contracts designed to limit long term exposure to a severe equity market decline or decrease in interest rates, which would cause an increase in expected claims and, therefore, reserves for GMDB and GMIB reinsurance business. The fair value of the majority of our positions in other derivative instruments is based on significant observable inputs including equity security and interest rate indices. Accordingly, these are classified within Level 2. 56 Table of Contents Where practical, fair values for short term debt, long term debt, and trust preferred securities are estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based principally on observable inputs including our incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being valued. As such, these instruments are classified within Level 2. Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, presents a break down of our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the year ended December 31, 2008. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 As discussed previously, on April 1, 2008, we acquired all outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries. As such, consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include the results of the acquired Combined Insurance business from April 1, 2008. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 13,080 $ 11,979 $ 12,030 9 % Net premiums earned 13,203 12,297 11,825 7 % 4 % Net investment income 2,062 1,918 1,601 7 % 20 % Net realized gains (losses) (1,633 ) (61 ) (98 ) NM (38)% Total revenues 13,632 14,154 13,328 (4)% 6 % Losses and loss expenses 7,603 7,351 7,070 3 % 4 % Future policy benefits 399 168 123 138 % 37 % Policy acquisition costs 2,135 1,771 1,715 21 % 3 % Administrative expenses 1,737 1,455 1,456 19 % Interest expense 230 175 176 31 % (1)% Other (income) expense (39 ) 81 (35 ) NM NM Total expenses 12,065 11,001 10,505 10 % 5 % Income before income tax 1,567 3,153 2,823 (50)% 12 % Income tax expense 370 575 522 (36)% 10 % Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 NM Net income $ 1,197 $ 2,578 $ 2,305 (54)% 12 % NMdenotes not meaningful Our net income was significantly impacted by net realized losses in 2008. These losses were primarily related to our fixed income and equity portfolios and are largely due to the widening credit spreads in our high quality corporate bond portfolio. Net realized losses were also related to changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. Refer to Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) and Investments. In addition, we recorded $567 million in pre tax net catastrophe related charges in 2008, compared with $159 million and $17 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For 2008, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and floods in the U.S. Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2008, compared with 2007, having been increased by the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion to our total net premiums written in 2008. In 2008, our international operations benefited from growth in A&H business and favorable foreign exchange impact due to the strengthening of several major currencies, particularly the euro, relative to the U.S. dollar. The favorable foreign exchange impact began to reverse during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, ACE Private Risk Services, which we acquired in 2008, added $207 million to our 2008 net premiums written. Excluding the impact of the businesses we acquired in 2008, net premiums written declined two percent, reflecting the competitive conditions we have experienced across most lines of business and regions of operation over the past two years. 57 Table of Contents The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Property and all other $3,954 $3,811 $3,625 4 % 5 % Casualty 5,838 6,464 6,506 (10)% (1)% Subtotal 9,792 10,275 10,131 (5)% 1 % Personal accident (A&H) 2,949 1,654 1,420 78 % 16 % Life 462 368 274 26 % 34 % Net premiums earned $13,203 $12,297 $11,825 7 % 4 % 2008 % of total 2007% of total 2006 % of total Property and all other 30% 31% 31% Casualty 44% 53% 55% Subtotal 74% 84% 86% Personal accident (A&H) 22% 13% 12% Life 4% 3% 2% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. The increase in 2008 net premiums earned, compared with 2007, was primarily related to the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion. ACE Private Risk Services added $137 million to our 2008 net premiums earned. During 2008, our A&H business continued to report growth while our casualty lines, particularly in North America, declined. The increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily related to increased production at ACE USA and ACE International as well as our life operations, partially offset by decreased production at our Global Reinsurance segment. Net investment income increased over the last three years, primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life Insurance and Reinsurance, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio 60.6% 61.6% 61.2% Policy acquisition cost ratio 16.2% 14.5% 14.6% Administrative expense ratio 12.8% 11.8% 12.3% Combined ratio 89.6% 87.9% 88.1% 58 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 60.6 % 61.6 % 61.2 % Catastrophe losses (4.7)% (1.3)% (0.1)% Prior period development 6.8% 1.8% 0.1% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.7% 62.1% 61.2% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe charges on each of our operating segments attributable to 2008 catastrophe losses. This information is based on currently available information derived from industry assessments of exposure and claims information obtained from our clients and brokers. Actual losses from these events may vary materially from our estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, as well as the potential impact from post event circumstances, for example factors such as demand surge or judicial rulings. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance Consolidated Net loss Hurricane Gustav $ 50 $ 11 $ 6 $ 67 Hurricane Ike 206 48 174 428 Other 42 24 6 72 Total $ 298 $ 83 $ 186 $ 567 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed 16 8 (21) 3 Total before income tax 314 91 165 570 Income tax benefit (99) (20) (1) (120) Total after income tax $ 215 $ 71 $ 164 $ 450 Effective tax rate 32% 22% 1% 21% Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $814 million of net favorable prior period development in 2008. This compares with $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007, and $12 million of net favorable prior period development in 2006. The favorable prior period development in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements; refer to Prior Period Development. Overall, the loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted, has increased over the prior year, due to competitive market conditions, partially offset by the favorable impact of the increasing mix of A&H business, which experiences lower loss ratios relative to P&C business. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased significantly in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business, including the Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H. A&H business typically requires higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. For 2008, the increase in policy acquisition costs also included the impact of higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business, reflecting more profitable crop/hail results on final settlement of 2007 written policies. This generated a higher profit share commission which added approximately 0.4 percentage points to our 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio. Additionally, for 2008, we experienced higher costs due to the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services unit which typically generates a higher policy acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. Our administrative expenses increased in 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance and ACE Private Risk Services. For 2007, our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable, compared with 2006, as the increasing trend experienced due to the growth of A&H was offset by reduced ceding commission at ACE Tempest Re USA. Our administrative expense ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, due to the increase in net premiums 59 Table of Contents earned. Administrative expenses in 2006 include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 24 percent in 2008, compared with 18 percent in 2007 and 2006. For 2008, our effective tax rate was adversely impacted by large realized losses on investments and derivatives and also due to a higher proportion of our net income being generated in higher tax paying jurisdictions. We decreased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $39 million in 2007 due primarily to a change in tax regulation. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $814 million on net unpaid losses and loss expenses during the year ended December 31, 2008, was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment by claim tail attribute are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability. Short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2008 Insurance North American $ (131 ) $ (220 ) $ (351 ) 2.4% Insurance Overseas General (131 ) (173 ) (304 ) 4.7% Global Reinsurance (17 ) (142 ) (159 ) 5.9% Total $ (279 ) $ (535 ) $ (814 ) 3.5% 2007 Insurance North American** $ (13 ) $ 22 $ 9 0.1% Insurance Overseas General (53 ) (139 ) (192 ) 3.2% Global Reinsurance*** 8 (42 ) (34 ) 1.3% Total $ (58 ) $ (159 ) $ (217 ) 1.0% * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. ** Insurance North American: $52 million favorable development on workers compensation was reclassified from short tail to long tail. *** Global Reinsurance: $5 million favorable development on workers compensation was reclassified from short tail to long tail. Insurance North American Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, representing 2.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business, including: Adverse development of $15 million in our national accounts workers compensation portfolios comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $47 million arising on accident year 2007, due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible and excess product lines. We evaluate this exposure on an annual basis, after the accident year has closed, allowing for the late reporting or identification of significant losses and for an initial assessment of the accident year. Our review in 2008 of potential 2007 events, coupled with our initial assessment of the accident year has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims. Second, adverse development of $62 million relating to 2003 and prior accident years. This development was the direct result of reported loss activity greater than expected in our prior review. During the past year, a targeted open case reserve review was conducted by our claims staff which resulted in a number of material case reserve increases that were not anticipated in our prior estimates of ultimate loss; Favorable development of $32 million in our national accounts commercial auto and general liability product lines comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $19 million was mainly from accident years 2003 60 Table of Contents and prior for exposures written on an excess basis. The combination of continued lower than expected reported incurred loss activity for the 2001 2003 accident years as well as increased weighting on loss development reserving methods, as these years mature, has driven the majority of the improvement in projected ultimate losses. Second, favorable development of $13 million relating to the 1999 2002 accident years primarily on a block of runoff programs comprising general liability, auto liability, and workers compensation product coverages. This favorable development was a result of lower than expected paid and case incurred development observed in the most recent reserve review which resulted in lower selected ultimate loss projections; Adverse development of $10 million related to higher than expected loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity on reported claims in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios, primarily affecting the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Recent case activity on these portfolios through calendar year 2007 and into 2008 was higher than expectations and we adjusted our estimates of ultimate loss accordingly. Prior estimates relied heavily on industry benchmarks including average severity trends; Adverse development of $29 million on a portfolio of primary casualty business written by ACE Westchester impacting the 2002 2004 accident years. This adverse activity was a function of higher than expected loss and allocated expenses on business that has a heavy concentration of exposure to commercial contractors. In the past few quarters, both paid and incurred development patterns for the tail period beyond 60 months have developed worse than industry benchmark factors which formed the basis for our projections in prior analyses; Favorable development of $19 million on excess casualty and umbrella business in our ACE Westchester unit primarily impacting accident years 2002 2004. This favorable activity was a function of a shift in weighting from expected loss based reserving methods to direct projections of ultimate losses as this long tailed exposure begins to mature for these accident periods; Adverse development of $10 million on an ACE Bermuda professional lines claim in accident year 2001 as a result of a review in 2008, that identified significant erosion below our attachment; Adverse development of $29 million on our portfolio of Defense Base Acts workers compensation coverage (covers employees of U.S. government contractors overseas). We experienced higher than expected incurred loss development since the last reserve study concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years. The majority of the development was related to increases in case reserves on known claims for these accident years, and recorded in 2008. These increases were judged to be more than claim acceleration and resulted in significant increases in the 2006 and 2007 accident year ultimate loss projections given the immaturity of the impacted accident years and long tail nature of the portfolio; Favorable development of $46 million on our medical risk business, primarily our hospital professional liability portfolio for the 2004 and 2005 accident years. Coverage is provided on a claims made basis and both paid and case incurred loss activity since our last review have been favorable relative to expected. As these accident periods have matured, we have gradually increased the weight applied to experience based methods, including the Bornhuetter Ferguson method, and placing less weight on our initial expected loss ratio method; Favorable development of $34 million in our management and professional liability product lines. This development was the net result of favorable development totaling $117 million associated with the 2005 and prior accident years and adverse development of $81 million with respect to the 2007 accident year. The favorable prior period development was a function of a review of all open claims in our retail management liability operation and a reassessment of the potential ultimate exposure on these claims. This reassessment of exposure and the maturation of these accident periods supported increasing the weight given to experience based loss projections. The adverse development relating to the 2007 accident year is due solely to a claim by claim review of exposures impacted by the ongoing credit crisis including but not limited to sub prime mortgages. These claim file reviews occurred during the 2008 calendar year as facts and circumstances surrounding these exposures continued to emerge and develop; Favorable development of $51 million on our long tail exposures in our Canadian P&C operations, principally arising in the 2005 accident year on excess casualty, umbrella, and D&O product lines. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since our prior analysis. In addition, we have increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident years mature; Favorable development of $68 million for accident years 2003 2006 due to the expiration of a large, multi year insurance contract written in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit. This contract included a significant per occurrence limit excess of a high attachment point. Coverage was provided on an integrated occurrence basis requiring notice of an event during the policy period. We completed a detailed claims audit in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to an adjustment to the booked loss and loss expense reserves; 61 Table of Contents Adverse development of $51 million on runoff casualty reserves, including asbestos and environmental, in the Brandywine and ACE Westchester business units following completion of our internal ground up review of asbestos and environmental liabilities for the most significant policyholders identified to date. This adverse development arose from several sources, the principal one of which was as a result of increased defense costs in litigating traditional tort defenses on asbestos cases; and Favorable development of $16 million relating to the completion of account reconciliations that identified duplicate loss processing, over processed coinsurance, and unregistered reinsurance recoveries. Net favorable development of $220 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $116 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business relating to the recording of the 2007 crop year bordereau received in 2008; Adverse development totaling $33 million relating to increases in our estimates of losses for the 2005 hurricanes primarily in ACE Westchester property ($23 million) and ACE Financial Services International (ACE FSI) ($10 million). The ACE Westchester development was due primarily to settlement on several excess policies above our prior case reserves, resulting in higher estimates of ultimate loss. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues continue to be present and may have a further adverse impact on our financial results, which may be material. The ACE FSI development was due to adverse development on a retrocessional program following a review of the programs claim circumstances; Favorable development of $13 million relating to lower than expected paid claims for the 2007 accident year on a run off portfolio of warranty business, mostly automobile extended warranty contracts. The change was driven primarily by recognition of recent paid claim experience, as a percentage of earned premiums, which has been lower than the historical averages used in our prior analyses; Favorable development of $27 million on ACE Westchester property and inland marine businesses. This change was due primarily to the fact that the reported incurred and paid loss activity for the 2007 accident year non catastrophe losses proved lower than anticipated based on historical loss development patterns; Favorable settlements of $15 million on ACE Bermuda property claims mainly in accident years 2005 2007 as a result of favorable claims experience. A review of all open claims was performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, which concluded that actual experience to date had been more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserves for the open claims; Favorable development of $9 million mainly in accident years 2006 and 2007 for ACE Bermuda political risk. This line is subject to review twice a year; during the fourth quarter 2008 review, we reflected the limited paid and case incurred loss activity relative to our assumptions and known events by releasing $9 million of IBNR; Favorable development of $29 million on ACE USAs property business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year and a portfolio of diverse global exposures written on an excess basis. Reported loss activity during the 2008 year, has been lower than anticipated in our prior review; Favorable development of $6 million in our Canadian P&C operations short tail lines concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years, covering multiple product lines including property and auto physical damage. Reported loss activity on these product lines was lower than expected; Favorable development of $6 million on the ACE USA commercial marine product lines primarily with respect to the 2002 2005 accident years. The favorable development was concentrated in the marine hull product line where loss development and or emergence during the 2008 calendar year were lower than expected; and Favorable development of $14 million on the ACE USA recreational marine business primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Loss emergence and or development during the 2008 calendar year were lower than historical averages used in our prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $13 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $21 million due to an adjustment made in 2006 relating to IBNR reserves on commuted ceded reinsurance contracts, identified and resolved during 2007; Adverse development of $33 million on two related specialty claims from a runoff financial guaranty program affecting accident year 2000 due to adverse judicial rulings rendered during the 2007 calendar year; Adverse development on our estimates of future allocated claims expense on two separate portfolios of workers compensation insurance totaling $28 million. This change in estimate affected our national accounts workers compensation 62 Table of Contents business (principally accident years 2002 2004) and a runoff portfolio of workers compensation servicing carrier business (covering accident years 1996 and prior). For the national accounts business, the change was principally in our high deductible portfolio. Based on analyses completed during 2007, we have increased our tail factor for allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) as well as our ratios of ALAE to loss used in our projection methodologies. Small movements in these assumptions produce a leveraged increase in the loss estimates across a number of accident years; Adverse development on our estimates of ultimate loss on a collection of runoff professional liability and medical programs totaling $20 million. This adverse development was the direct result of a review of all open claims that was completed during 2007. This claims review identified a number of cases where adverse change in facts and circumstances led to a significant deviation from our estimates of ultimate claim value; Favorable development of $52 million in our workers compensation business due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents for the 2006 accident year. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible line of business. We evaluate this exposure annually after the accident year has closed allowing for the late identification of significant losses. Our review in 2007 of potential 2006 accident year losses has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims; Favorable development in our estimate of ultimate loss and ALAE of $18 million in our surety business. This improvement was heavily concentrated in the 2005 and 2006 accident years. In the 2007 calendar year, the level of late reported claims and development on known claims for this portfolio was significantly below historical levels for this line of business resulting in a reduction in all loss projection methods; Favorable development on our national accounts casualty business, primarily general liability, of $21 million for the 2002 2004 accident years. Development on these portfolios had been favorable relative to the original assumptions used to price the products. Actual paid and incurred loss activity in 2007 was lower than assumed in our prior projections and we have modified our estimates accordingly; and Favorable development of $25 million on our foreign casualty portfolio for the 2004 and prior accident years. This was partly due to an adjustment for a reserve established in 2006 for a single large claim, but also due to low levels of reported and paid loss activity on our foreign captive business. This particular line has net exposure on a per occurrence basis excess of high deductibles/self insured retentions and an aggregate basis excess of an aggregate attachment point. Expected loss emergence patterns used in our 2006 review projected higher loss development for the 2004 and prior accident years than emerged during 2007 prompting a reduction in our projection of ultimate losses. Net adverse development of $22 million on short tail business including: Adverse development totaling $115 million relating to increases in our estimates of loss for the 2005 storms primarily in our ACE Westchester operation but also some modest development in our offshore energy business. This development was due primarily to a relatively small number of losses on excess policies with large exposed limits. These losses reached settlement during 2007 for amounts in excess of our case reserves prompting adjustments to our projections of ultimate losses. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes had involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues were present in 2007; Favorable development of $33 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business. This was the direct effect of recording the final settlement of the 2006 pool year from the bordereau received during the 2007 calendar year; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate losses for first party lines including property and auto physical damage in our ACE Canada operations totaling $18 million, affecting primarily the 2006 accident year. Incurred loss development during calendar year 2007 on the 2006 accident year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned greater credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $19 million on our Canadian A&H portfolio. We have limited historical experience for this product line. Losses were originally recorded using an expected loss ratio method. Actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 has proven to be more favorable than our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; and Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $28 million on short tail, non catastrophe losses in our ACE Westchester property and inland marine product lines. Attritional incurred loss activity on the 2005 and 2006 accident years in the 2007 calendar year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Insurance North American experienced adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. 63 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, representing 4.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development for 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business including: Favorable development of $159 million from accident years 2005 and prior in ACE Internationals financial lines and casualty (primary and excess) portfolios. Most of the reduction was in accident years 2002 2005 on financial lines, primary casualty, and supported casualty excess. Additional excess releases were made in accident years 2001 and prior. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since the prior years analysis. In addition, we have increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident periods mature; Favorable development of $11 million in ACE Global Market financial lines. This was across a number of accident years. The decrease was driven by a reliance on experience based methods which reflected favorable development in 2008 in the quicker developing financial lines of crime and professional indemnity; and Adverse development of $39 million on accident years 2006 2007, mainly in ACE International casualty portfolios following heavier than expected loss emergence. Actual major claim notices received in 2008 caused loss estimates on U.K. excess casualty and Continental Europe financial lines to be increased. Loss projections for the Continental Europe casualty portfolios also increased following adverse attritional claim activity (i.e. excluding catastrophes and large losses) in one country and a large loss in another country. Net favorable development of $173 million on short tail business including: Net favorable development of $113 million in ACE International property lines. This activity was focused mainly in accident years 2003 2007 and the U.K. and Continental Europe regions. The releases in accident years 2003 2005 were partially due to case specific reserve reductions driven by new information obtained in 2008. Accident years 2006 2007 were driven by favorable emergence relative to the expected development pattern as of the prior year end and reliance on experience based methods for this short tailed line; Favorable development on ACE International accident and health of $44 million. This was mainly from the U.K., Continental Europe, and Latin America regions in accident years 2003 2007. The decrease was driven by a combination of favorable development in 2008 across all segments of this book and greater reliance on experience based methods as the accident years mature; Favorable development of $30 million for the ACE International marine book. This was mainly in accident years 2005 2007 and in the Continental Europe and Latin America regions. Given the short tailed nature of this line, experience based methods are the primary basis of carried reserves. Given the favorable loss emergence in 2008, reserves were reduced to reflect this experience; and Adverse development of $14 million due to several major ACE Global Markets energy losses primarily for accident years 2006 and 2007. First notice for one of these losses was received in 2008, while the remainder of the increase arose on previously notified claims that were subject in 2008 to a detailed claims review of individual event circumstances and their associated coverages. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development for 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $53 million on long tail lines of business, including: Net favorable development of $33 million in the 2006 and prior accident years for Insurance Overseas General long tail lines, primarily casualty and financial lines. This favorable prior period development was in response to our annual review of long tail lines completed during 2007. There was $23 million of net favorable development for Insurance Overseas General on the 2003 2005 accident years driven by reductions in loss development method indications and greater credibility being assigned to Bornhuetter Ferguson projections versus expected loss ratio methods. This shift in credibility weighting between reserving methods is common practice and allows for greater recognition of actual loss emergence as accident years mature; Net favorable development of $20 million as a result of an update of the detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures in Insurance Overseas General which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior and $45 million in accident year 2006, and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005 ; and 64 Table of Contents Adverse development of $11 million in ACE Global Markets long tail professional lines, primarily in accident years 1999 2003. This adverse prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on three accounts based on updated information received during the course of claim settlement in 2007. Net favorable development of $139 million on short tail lines of business including: Favorable development of $84 million on short tail property and fire lines primarily in the 2006 accident year in ACE International. The favorable development during the past year was due in large part to shifting credibility away from Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and relying more heavily on loss development patterns as case incurred loss became a more accurate predictor of ultimate loss. This shift in credibility tended to reduce indicated ultimate losses since, with hindsight, our initial expected loss ratios have proven to be conservative; Favorable development of $13 million on 2005 hurricane losses in ACE Global Markets. This adjustment was due to the fact that after 24 months of development, it was concluded that there would be no new reported claims; Favorable development of $30 million on specialty A&H primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in ACE Europe. This favorable prior period development followed the completion of the regular reserve review and was driven by better than expected loss experience relative to prior reserving assumptions. The favorable experience arose across several countries with no particular underlying claim or loss emergence trend identifiable; Favorable development of $28 million on specialty marine, primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in both ACE International and ACE Global Markets. This favorable prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on several large claims based on updated information received during claim settlement in 2007; and Adverse development of $9 million on specialty consumer lines, primarily in accident year 2006. This adverse development was primarily driven by further deterioration of ACE Internationals homeowners warranty business in Norway. The indicated ultimate loss was revised upwards in 2007 in response to several key claim metrics underlying the reserve estimate: number of reopened claims, loss adjustment expenses, and frequency and severity of late reported claims. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, representing 5.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development recorded in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Net favorable development of $17 million on long tail business across a number of lines and years including: Net favorable prior period development of $30 million principally in treaty years 2003 and 2004 in ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, workers compensation catastrophe, and medical malpractice), offset by $16 million adverse development in treaty year 2007. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods away from expectations as these treaty periods mature, while the 2007 treaty year development resulted from adverse incurred losses due to large loss development in casualty lines of business. Net favorable development of $142 million on short tail business across a number of lines and years including: Favorable prior period development of $43 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior in ACE Tempest Re USA across several portfolios. The development arose principally on property and the credit & surety line following completion of reserve reviews in 2008. The property portfolio benefited from better than expected claim emergence, while the release in the credit & surety line followed a detailed review of claims and associated recoveries, together with favorable loss emergence; Favorable prior period development of $28 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior in ACE Tempest Re Europe across several portfolios, principally property, marine and energy. This included $16 million property release on U.S. and international property exposures and reflected lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Net favorable development of $71 million primarily on accident years 2002 2006 in ACE Tempest Re Bermudas property catastrophe portfolio for claims from prior catastrophe events. The release followed a detailed review during the 2008 year of each event and each cedants coverage terms and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development recorded in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to 65 Table of Contents long tail lines of business for ACE Tempest Re USA of $8 million mainly as a result of higher than expected claims reported in 2007 primarily for treaty years 2000 2005 for casualty and workers compensation business on several accounts. Favorable movements of $42 million largely related to claim closings on short tail property and other short tail lines of business primarily from treaty years 2005 and prior were recorded in 2007. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 The discussions that follow include tables, which show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. As discussed previously, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries on April 1, 2008. As such, segment operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include the results of the acquired Combined Insurance business. The Combined Insurance results are included in our Insurance Overseas General segment or Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment according to the nature of the business written. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment and the results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). In addition, beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2008, Insurance North American includes ACE Private Risk Services, an underwriting unit we acquired in 2008 that provides personal lines coverages (such as homeowners and automobile) for high net worth clients. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 5,636 $ 5,833 $ 5,940 (3)% (2)% Net premiums earned 5,679 6,007 5,719 (5)% 5 % Losses and loss expenses 4,080 4,269 4,026 (4)% 6 % Policy acquisition costs 562 515 530 9 % (3)% Administrative expenses 536 530 502 1 % 6 % Underwriting income 501 693 661 (28)% 5% Net investment income 1,095 1,034 876 6 % 18 % Net realized gains (losses) (709 ) 125 (83 ) NM NM Interest expense 1 NM Other (income) expense 7 11 (2 ) (36)% NM Income tax expense 315 468 352 (33)% 33 % Net income $ 564 $ 1,373 $ 1,104 (59)% 24% Loss and loss expense ratio 71.8% 71.1% 70.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.9% 8.6% 9.2% Administrative expense ratio 9.4% 8.8% 8.8% Combined ratio 91.1% 88.5% 88.4% 66 Table of Contents Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased in 2008, primarily due to lower new and renewal business for ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division. Net premiums written in 2008 include ACE Private Risk Services which added $207 million to this segments net premiums written. ACE Private Risk Services was acquired in December 2007. Excluding ACE Private Risk Services, Insurance North Americans net premiums written decreased seven percent in 2008, compared with 2007. ACE USA experienced competitive conditions across many of its units in 2008 which resulted in reductions in net premiums written in its middle market and large risk workers compensation businesses, its property business, and its specialty businesses including aerospace, marine, medical facilities, and surety. In addition to these reductions for ACE USA, the year ended December 31, 2007, included a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. These ACE USA decreases were partially offset by increased writings in professional liability, foreign casualty, and A&H lines of business. For ACE Westchester, net premiums written decreased in 2008 due to competitive conditions throughout 2008 that resulted in lower premium volume in our casualty, inland marine, and property units. For 2008, higher crop premium partially offset these reductions as there were generally higher commodity prices during 2008 compared with 2007. ACE Bermuda experienced decreases in its excess liability business primarily due to lower production and retention as we declined or ceded business submitted to us with unfavorable rates relative to risk exposure. This trend was partially offset by growth in ACE Bermudas political risk business. The decrease in Insurance North Americans net premiums written in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to a decrease in new and renewal business at ACE Westchester, which experienced very competitive conditions on P&C lines. ACE Westchester also reported a decrease in retention of gross premiums written, primarily due to changes in business mix. ACE USA reported modest growth in 2007, driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and the large assumed portfolio transfer. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,576 $ 1,486 $ 1,296 6 % 15 % Casualty 3,857 4,298 4,228 (10)% 2 % Personal accident (A&H) 246 223 195 10 % 14 % Net premiums earned $ 5,679 $ 6,007 $ 5,719 (5)% 5 % Entity/Division ACE USA $ 3,858 $ 4,196 $ 3,795 (8)% 11 % ACE Westchester 1,324 1,420 1,465 (7)% (3)% ACE Bermuda 359 391 459 (8)% (15)% ACE Private Risk Services 138 NM Net premiums earned $ 5,679 $ 6,007 $ 5,719 (6)% 5 % 2008% of total 2007 % of total 2006% of total Line of Business Property and all other 28% 25% 23% Casualty 68% 71% 74% Personal accident (A&H) 4% 4% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Entity/Division ACE USA 68% 70% 66% ACE Westchester 24% 24% 26% ACE Bermuda 6% 6% 8% ACE Private Risk Services 2% 0% 0% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% 67 Table of Contents ACE USAs reduction in net premiums earned in 2008 was primarily driven by the decrease in financial solutions business, as the prior year included approximately $170 million related to a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program. In addition, net premiums earned were lower in 2008 due to decreases in middle market workers compensation business, large risk accounts and property, reflecting competitive market conditions and declining business that did not meet our selective underwriting standards. These reductions were partially offset by growth in ACE USAs professional liability, specialty casualty, A&H, inland marine and foreign casualty units. ACE USAs increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily driven by assumed loss portfolio business, as well as new business in the energy unit and growth in specialty casualty lines. ACE USAs curtailment of middle market workers compensation business partially offset these increases. ACE Westchesters reduction in net premiums earned over the last two years was primarily due to declines in casualty and inland marine business, which resulted from competitive market conditions. This trend was partially offset by crop business growth, which benefited from generally higher commodity prices for most of 2008 and in 2007. ACE Bermudas reduction in net premiums earned in 2008, compared with 2007, was a result of lower production, and the decrease in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to the curtailment of financial solutions business. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2008 and 2007. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 71.8 % 71.1 % 70.4 % Catastrophe losses (5.4)% (0.3)% % Prior period development 6.2 % (0.2)% (1.2) % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 72.6 % 70.6 % 69.2 % Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $298 million in 2008, compared with $16 million in 2007, and $nil in 2006. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $9 million and $65 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio as adjusted in 2008, compared with 2007, was primarily due to changes in business mix, specifically higher premiums from the crop business, which carries a relatively high current accident year loss ratio. In addition, the 2008 loss and loss expense ratio reflects increased loss costs, including higher incurred losses for non catastrophe events that affected the property, marine and energy business units. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, due in part to the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services in 2008, which generates a higher acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. The increase also reflects higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business, as 2008 included more profitable results on the first quarter final settlement than in 2007, as well as increased crop/hail production for 2008. The first quarter settlement in 2008 generated a higher profit share commission, which added approximately 0.8 percentage points to Insurance North Americans 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio. In addition, higher assumed loss portfolio transfer business in 2007, which incurred low acquisition costs as is typical for these types of transactions, reduced the 2007 policy acquisition ratio by 0.2 percentage points. These increases in the 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio were partially offset by improvements at ACE Bermuda, primarily due to increased ceding commissions. The decrease in Insurance North Americans 2007 policy acquisition cost ratio, compared with 2006, was primarily related to reductions in the policy acquisition cost ratio at ACE USA and ACE Westchester. For ACE USA, the reduction reflected higher ceding commissions as well as lower premium taxes due to reassessment of obligations for premium based assessments and guaranty funds. For ACE Westchester, the reduction in the policy acquisition cost ratio was primarily due to lower profit share commissions on crop business in 2007, compared with 2006. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, reflecting the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services unit, which generates higher administrative expense ratios than our commercial P&C business, and the reduction in net premiums earned. The administrative expense ratio was stable in 2007, compared with 2006. 68 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous insurance operations; the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. This segment has four regions of operations; ACE European Group, which is comprised of ACE Europe and ACE Global Markets branded business, ACE Asia Pacific, ACE Far East, and ACE Latin America. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in Europe and Asia Pacific. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 5,332 $ 4,568 $ 4,266 17 % 7 % Net premiums earned 5,337 4,623 4,321 15 % 7 % Losses and loss expenses 2,679 2,420 2,259 11 % 7 % Future policy benefits 12 NM Policy acquisition costs 1,193 963 856 24 % 13 % Administrative expenses 793 669 609 19 % 10 % Underwriting income 660 571 597 16 % (4)% Net investment income 521 450 370 16 % 22 % Net realized gains (losses) (316) (69) (16) NM NM Other (income) expense (11) (20) 10 (45)% NM Income tax expense 100 183 206 (45)% (11)% Net income $ 776 $ 789 $ 735 (2)% 7 % Loss and loss expense ratio 50.4% 52.4% 52.3% Policy acquisition cost ratio 22.4% 20.8% 19.8% Administrative expense ratio 14.8% 14.5% 14.1% Combined ratio 87.6% 87.7% 86.2% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance, which added $370 million of net premiums written, favorable foreign exchange impact, and growth in A&H business. During 2008, ACE International benefited from the strengthening of the euro, relative to the U.S. dollar (refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). The favorable foreign exchange impact began to reverse during the fourth quarter of 2008. ACE International continues to report growth in its A&H business, particularly in Latin America and Asia Pacific. On the P&C side, ACE International reported growth in emerging markets in Europe and the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Latin America, offset by declines in the U.K. ACE Global Markets reported lower production in most product lines, particularly property, aviation, marine, and energy, primarily due to competitive conditions. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE Internationals results as both the euro and the pound sterling strengthened significantly relative to the U.S. dollar during 2007. 69 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,855 $ 1,697 $ 1,617 9 % 5 % Casualty 1,487 1,495 1,479 (1)% 1 % Personal accident (A&H) 1,995 1,431 1,225 39 % 17 % Net premiums earned $ 5,337 $ 4,623 $ 4,321 15 % 7 % Entity/Division ACE Europe $ 2,132 $ 1,999 $ 1,819 7 % 10 % ACE Asia Pacific 708 631 590 12 % 7 % ACE Far East 425 365 361 16 % 1 % ACE Latin America 778 633 521 23 % 21 % ACE International 4,043 3,628 3,291 11 % 10% ACE Global Markets 923 995 1,030 (7)% (3)% Combined Insurance International 371 NM Net premiums earned $ 5,337 $ 4,623 $ 4,321 15 % 7% 2008 % of total 2007 % of total 2006 % of total Line of Business Property and all other 35% 37% 37% Casualty 28% 32% 34% Personal accident (A&H) 37% 31% 29% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Entity/Division ACE Europe 40% 43% 42% ACE Asia Pacific 13% 14% 14% ACE Far East 8% 8% 8% ACE Latin America 15% 14% 12% ACE International 76% 79% 76% ACE Global Markets 17% 21% 24% Combined Insurance International 7% 0% 0% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the added premiums from Combined Insurance, growth in A&H production, and favorable foreign exchange impact. Combined Insurance added $371 million to this segments 2008 net premiums earned. ACE International continues to benefit from growth in A&H business, particularly in ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America. For several years, these regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H customer base. Our A&H business is mainly personal accident with some supplemental medical cover, typically paying fixed amounts for claims, and is therefore, insulated from rising health care costs. Following decreased production over the last several quarters, ACE Global Markets reported decreases in net premiums earned. Insurance Overseas General reported an increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE International business. 70 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned, excluding Combined Insurance, for the periods indicated. 2008 2007 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 6.2% 0.6% Foreign exchange effect 2.4% 6.5% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 8.6% 7.1% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 5.1% 0.7% Foreign exchange effect 2.3% 6.3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.4% 7.0% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.4 % 52.4 % 52.3 % Catastrophe losses (1.6)% (2.1)% (0.1)% Prior period development 5.7 % 4.1 % 1.7 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.5 % 54.4 % 53.9 % Net catastrophe losses for 2008 were $83 million, compared with $94 million and $3 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2008, were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $304 million, $192 million, and $72 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Our loss and loss expense ratio will tend to decrease on a comparative basis as the proportion of A&H business to P&C business grows. A&H business typically generates a much lower loss and loss expense ratio (and a higher policy acquisition cost ratio) than traditional P&C business. The impact of both the growth in A&H business relative to P&C and the addition of Combined Insurance resulted in a 1.0 percentage point decrease in the adjusted loss ratios for 2008. After considering this impact, the adjusted loss ratio for 2008, increased due to deteriorating market conditions. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business and the impact of the recently acquired Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H business. A&H business typically attracts higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. In addition, for 2008, reduced ceding commissions had the effect of increasing policy acquisition costs. In 2007, the increasing impact on policy acquisition costs from A&H growth was partially offset by increased ceding commissions at ACE Global Markets. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio has been relatively stable over the last three years primarily due to expense management as it grows its businesses. For 2008, administrative expenses increased primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange impact and the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, ACE International reported increased costs for 2007, associated with its entrance into emerging markets, specifically Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and in support of A&H growth at Asia Pacific. 71 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverages to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 914 $ 1,197 $ 1,550 (24)% (23)% Net premiums earned 1,017 1,299 1,511 (22)% (14)% Losses and loss expenses 524 664 784 (21)% (15)% Policy acquisition costs 192 248 303 (23)% (18)% Administrative expenses 56 64 62 (13)% 3 % Underwriting income 245 323 362 (24)% (11)% Net investment income 309 274 221 13 % 24% Net realized gains (losses) (163) 21 10 NM 110% Other (income) expense 2 4 8 (50)% (50)% Income tax expense 30 32 38 (6) % (16)% Net income $ 359 $ 582 $ 547 (38)% 6 % Loss and loss expense ratio 51.5% 51.1% 51.8% Policy acquisition cost ratio 18.8% 19.1% 20.1% Administrative expense ratio 5.5% 4.9% 4.1% Combined ratio 75.8% 75.1% 76.0% Global Reinsurance reported intense competition across the majority of its regions of operations over the last two years. This has resulted in significant declines in production, as clients increased their own risk retention and we adhered to our strict underwriting standards which meant not renewing several large policies. The following tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 229 $ 285 $ 354 (20 )% (19 )% Casualty 494 671 799 (26 )% (16 )% Property catastrophe 294 343 358 (14 )% (4 )% Net premiums earned $ 1,017 $ 1,299 $ 1,511 (22 )% (14 )% Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda $ 299 $ 356 $ 367 (16) % (3 )% ACE Tempest Re USA 490 693 872 (29) % (21 )% ACE Tempest Re Europe 212 241 272 (12) % (11 )% ACE Tempest Re Canada 16 9 78 % NM Net premiums earned $ 1,017 $ 1,299 $ 1,511 (22) % (14 )% 72 Table of Contents 2008% of total 2007 % of total 2006% of total Line of Business Property and all other 22 % 22 % 23 % Casualty 49 % 52 % 52 % Property catastrophe 29 % 26 % 25 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 29 % 27 % 24 % ACE Tempest Re USA 48 % 53 % 58 % ACE Tempest Re Europe 21 % 19 % 18 % ACE Tempest Re Canada 2 % 1 % % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to lower production. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported a decline in net premiums earned due to non renewed business, offset by $21 million of inward reinstatement premiums in connection with Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe reported declines in net premiums earned, primarily due to competitive conditions over the last two years, which reduced production. The decrease in net premiums earned in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily due to lower production at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, and ACE Tempest Re Europe. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.5 % 51.1 % 51.8 % Catastrophe losses (17.6)% (3.7)% (0.9)% Prior period development 16.0 % 2.6 % 0.4 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 49.9% 50.0% 51.3% Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $186 million in 2008, mainly due to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $49 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $34 million and $5 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio decreased during 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the increase in inward catastrophe related reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. We pay little or no commission on reinstatement premiums written and earned. The decrease in the policy acquisition cost ratio in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to changes in business mix and lower ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA. Administrative expenses decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to lower staffing costs. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned, partially offset by reduced staffing costs. Life Insurance and Reinsurance The Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), ACE International Life, and the North American A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. ACE Life Re comprises two operations. The first provides reinsurance to primary life insurers for variable annuity guarantees and the other is a traditional life reinsurance company. ACE Life Re is currently not quoting on new opportunities in the variable annuity reinsurance marketplace. ACE International Life develops direct insurance opportunities in emerging markets, including Egypt, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, the United Arab Emirates, and in China through a partially owned company. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products that are targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S. and Canada. Results for 2008 include Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008, the date of acquisition. We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. 73 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Net premiums written $ 1,198 $ 381 $ 274 Net premiums earned 1,170 368 274 Losses and loss expenses 320 Future policy benefits 387 168 123 Policy acquisition costs 188 45 26 Administrative expenses 199 50 35 Net investment income 142 55 42 Life underwriting income 218 160 132 Net realized gains (losses) (532 ) (164 ) (36 ) Other (income) expense 12 1 Income tax expense (benefit) 30 (8 ) (6 ) Net income (loss) $ (356 ) $ 3 $ 102 The following table provides a line of business breakdown of Life Insurance and Reinsurances underwriting income for the periods indicated. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 (in millions U.S. dollars) Life underwriting income ACE Life Re $ 105 $ 181 $ 153 (42 )% 18 % ACE International Life (28 ) (21 ) (21 ) 33 % Combined Insurance 141 NM Life underwriting income $ 218 $ 160 $ 132 36 % 21 % Life underwriting income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the operating results of the acquired Combined Insurance business. ACE Life Res (Life reinsurance) underwriting income decreased in 2008 due to increased benefit reserves primarily due to poor worldwide equity market performance. Benefit reserves reflect the expected value of future claims on earned premium exposures and fluctuate with movements in equity indices, interest rates and policyholder behavior. Net realized gains (losses), which we exclude from life underwriting income, relate primarily to changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008 which were caused by adverse financial market conditions, primarily poor equity market performance. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates and Fair Value Measurements for more information. ACE International Life generated an underwriting loss in 2008 as we continue to incur start up costs in several countries as we develop the business. The above table reflects Combined Insurance business beginning April 1, 2008, the date of acquisition. From April 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008, net premiums earned from Combined Insurance were $763 million. Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ 1,972 $ 1,773 $ 1,463 Short term investments 109 130 119 Equity securities 93 68 57 Other (20 ) 25 26 Gross investment income 2,154 1,996 1,665 Investment expenses (92 ) (78 ) (64 ) Net investment income $ 2,062 $ 1,918 $ 1,601 74 Table of Contents Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income includes accretion from the new cost basis of securities for which other than temporary impairments have been recorded due to interest rate spreads. Accretion does not occur for securities where an other than temporary impairment was attributable to issuer specific credit events. Net investment income increased eight percent in 2008, compared with 2007, and 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 6.4 percent at December 31, 2008, compared with 5.3 percent and 5.4 percent at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in Other investment income are changes in fair value of trading securities included within rabbi trusts maintained for compensation plans. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Average invested assets $ 41,502 $ 38,798 $ 34,007 Net investment income $ 2,062 $ 1,918 $ 1,601 Return on average invested assets 5.0% 4.9% 4.7% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio with the concurrence of ACE management when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, securities sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and, thus, the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on securities sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would, therefore, tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An environment where interest rates are increasing would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, there is a risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are, thus, unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). We review our investments for other than temporary impairment based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in a loss position, the magnitude of the loss position, and whether the security is rated below an investment grade level; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience, and other issuer specific developments; 75 Table of Contents our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period; and equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months were generally impaired. Given current market conditions, and in light of recent general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we have qualitatively evaluated our application of the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. Similar to prior quarters, we evaluated investments in our portfolio where cost exceeded fair value and made certain judgments as to our ability to recover our cost. Our analysis, beginning with the third quarter of 2008, required us to consider carefully the duration and severity of decline and the root causes thereof. Specifically, we further evaluated during the quarter whether declines were related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions, and therefore more likely to be temporary, or were instead related to specific credit events or issuer performance, and therefore more likely to be other than temporarily impaired. Using this refined evaluation process resulted in a lower dollar value of investments in an unrealized loss position being deemed other than temporarily impaired in comparison to our previous evaluation process. We believe the underlying credit quality of the portfolio supports the use of our modified approach. Refer to Note 4 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, which includes a table that summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a write down to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. For fixed maturity investments, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income, and included in income in future periods based upon the amount and timing of expected future cash flows of the security. The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (846 ) $ (2,091 ) $ (2,937 ) $ (98 ) $ 48 $ (50 ) Equity securities (349 ) (363 ) (712 ) 162 (122 ) 40 Other (55 ) (313 ) (368 ) 37 73 110 Subtotal investments (1,250 ) (2,767 ) (4,017 ) 101 1 100 Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (3 ) (3 ) (19 ) (19 ) Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (650 ) (650 ) (185 ) (185 ) S&P put option 164 164 22 22 Fair value adjustment on other derivatives 83 83 16 16 Subtotal derivatives (406 ) (406 ) (166 ) (166 ) Foreign exchange gains 23 23 4 4 Total gains (losses) $ (1,633 ) $ (2,767 ) $ (4,400 ) $ (61 ) $ (1 ) $ (62 ) In 2008, we recorded net realized losses on derivative transactions. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. 76 Table of Contents Our net realized losses in 2008 included write downs of $1.1 billion as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value of certain securities was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $141 million and $214 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table provides a breakdown of our other than temporary impairments and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the year ended December 31, 2008. 2008 PriceImpairment CreditImpairment Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Investment grade corporate $ (245 ) $ (169 ) $ (36 ) $ (450 ) High yield corporate (233 ) (13 ) (56 ) (302 ) Mortgage backed securities/Asset backed securities (100 ) 80 (20 ) Convertible bonds (74 ) (74 ) Fixed maturities and short term investments (578 ) (182 ) (86 ) (846 ) Equity securities (248 ) (101 ) (349 ) Other (56 ) 1 (55 ) Total $ (882 ) $ (182 ) $ (186 ) $ (1,250 ) The allocation of other than temporary impairments between those primarily triggered by severity of price decline versus credit loss is judgmental given that it is difficult to discern, on a security by security basis, the portion, if any, of price decline attributable to credit loss. The Credit Impairment column includes securities where credit losses represent all, or substantially all, of the price decline reflected as other than temporary impairments. The Price Impairment column includes the remaining other than temporary impairments. In light of the magnitude of our other than temporary impairments in 2008 relative to prior periods, comparative information for 2007 and 2006 is not meaningful. Other Net Realized Gains (Losses) principally includes gains and losses from security sales. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities in 2008 were concentrated in the financial services sector of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities in 2008 included approximately $150 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. Other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 of $248 million were driven by overall declines in the equity markets. Other than temporary impairments in 2007 and 2006 were $123 million and $198 million for fixed maturities, $16 million and $10 million for equities and $2 million and $6 million for other investments and were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase. Our net realized and unrealized loss in 2008 included approximately $2.1 billion of decline in our investment grade fixed income portfolio and approximately $873 million on our high yield bond portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our U.S. investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $1.1 billion of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments and $392 million of realized losses for impairments of fixed income investments related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold our fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $525 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to fully recognize the associated deferred tax asset as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized, and accordingly, we did not record a valuation allowance against this deferred tax asset. We engage in a securities lending program, which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in short term funds of high credit quality with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. During 2008, certain investments in the money market mutual funds purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in a $66 million unrealized loss. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value was temporary. 77 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Equity in net income (loss) of partially owned companies $ (52 ) $ 39 $ (60 ) Minority interest expense 11 7 8 Federal excise and capital taxes 16 18 10 Other (14 ) 17 7 Other (income) expense $ (39 ) $ 81 $ (35 ) Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited and Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO), which is included in equity in net income of partially owned companies. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $397 million, or $20.73 per share, compared with a market value of $218 million, or $11.40 per share, at December 31, 2008. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures with AGO. Our investment is not other than temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2008. On November 14, 2008, Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) announced a definitive agreement to purchase Financial Security Assurance, Inc. (FSA) from Dexia SA (Dexia) for a purchase price of $722 million. This transaction will be funded by $361 million in cash and 44,657,000 common shares of AGO. The acquisition is expected to close in March 2009. AGO will finance the cash portion of the acquisition with proceeds from a public equity offering to WL Ross & Co LLC (WLR) at a per share price between a floor of $6.00 and a ceiling of $8.50. EITF 08 6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations, requires ACE account for AGOs issuance of shares, and resulting dilutive effect, as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment. Assuming completion of the planned share issuances, ACE will no longer be deemed to exert significant influence over AGO and must account for our AGO investment as an available for sale equity security in accordance with FAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (FAS 115). FAS 115 requires that we then carry our AGO investment at fair value with any unrealized gains and losses reflected in other comprehensive income. Assuming AGO had completed its share issuances associated with the FSA acquisition on December 31, 2008, the application of FAS 115 would have reduced our book value by approximately $179 million. Other income and expense also includes certain federal excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.6 years at December 31, 2008, compared with 3.5 years at December 31, 2007. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced net unrealized losses of approximately $2.8 billion, primarily due to widening of credit spreads. We have the ability and intent to hold these securities until they recover their cost. Other investments principally comprises direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $76 million at December 31, 2008, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Our investment portfolio continues to be predominantly invested in investment grade fixed income securities and is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors and issuers. Our aggregate investment exposure to Lehman Brothers and American International Group has been and is a small percentage of our investment portfolio. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio. We provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer and our Treasurer. We also have well established strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 31,155 $ 33,109 $ 33,184 $ 32,994 Fixed maturities held to maturity 2,865 2,860 3,015 2,987 Short term investments 3,350 3,350 2,631 2,631 37,370 39,319 38,830 38,612 Equity securities 988 1,132 1,837 1,618 Other investments 1,362 1,368 1,140 880 Total investments $ 39,720 $ 41,819 $ 41,807 $ 41,110 The fair value of our total investments decreased $2.1 billion in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unrealized depreciation on investments, settlement of reverse repurchase agreements, redemption of our Preferred Shares, unfavorable foreign exchange impact, offset by the investing of operating cash flows and the net addition of Combined Insurances investment portfolio. Other investments increased primarily due to additional funding of limited partnerships and investment funds. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentageof Total MarketValue Percentageof Total Treasury $ 1,018 3% $ 1,145 3% Agency 2,027 5% 1,820 5% Corporate 8,744 23% 9,015 23% Mortgage backed securities 10,986 29% 13,733 35% Asset backed securities 709 2% 1,150 3% Municipal 2,124 6% 1,844 5% Non U.S. 8,412 23% 7,492 19% Short term investments 3,350 9% 2,631 7% Total $ 37,370 100% $ 38,830 100% AAA $ 22,960 61% $ 24,553 63% AA 3,374 9% 3,747 10% A 5,497 15% 4,590 12% BBB 3,388 9% 3,297 8% BB 1,119 3% 1,073 3% B 934 3% 1,481 4% Other 98 89 Total $ 37,370 100% $ 38,830 100% 79 Table of Contents Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through investment portfolios managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2008, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately five percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 500 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $31 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACEs allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. ACEs high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (approximately 0.1 percent of investment portfolio). The table below summarizes our significant exposures to corporate bonds by market value and S&P credit rating as of December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 MarketValue Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) General Electric Co. $ 459 AAA JP Morgan Chase & Co. 365 A+ Bank of America Corp. 322 A+ Citigroup Inc. 293 A AT&T Inc. 189 A Wells Fargo & Co. 187 AA Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 179 A HSBC Holdings Plc 178 AA Wachovia Corp. 166 A+ Comcast Corp. 158 BBB+ Morgan Stanley 155 A Time Warner Inc. 155 BBB+ Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. 148 A+ Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 139 A Verizon Communication Inc. 138 A ConocoPhillips 115 A Credit Suisse Group 106 A XTO Energy Inc. 96 BBB Banco Santander SA 95 AA HBOS Plc 87 A+ Deutsche Telekom AG 87 BBB+ Telecom Italia SpA 86 BBB American International Group 83 A Dominion Resources Inc./VA 76 A American Express 74 A Total $ 4,136 80 Table of Contents Municipal bond portfolio Financial guarantee companies insure approximately $1.0 billion of our $2.1 billion municipal bond portfolio. These investments are made based on the underlying credit of the issuer and, as such, any decline in value because of a downgrade of bond insurers would be minimal. For example, without the AAA insurance guarantees, the average rating of this portfolio would fall to AA from AA+, which would result in a nominal decline in value. We would expect a similar market impact from the loss of AAA insurance guarantees on our $118 million in other investments wrapped by financial guarantors. Mortgage backed and asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Fair Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 406 $ $ $ $ $ 406 FNMA 4,483 4,483 Freddie Mac 2,071 2,071 Total agency RMBS 6,960 6,960 Non agency RMBS 1,764 56 34 24 7 1,885 Total RMBS 8,724 56 34 24 7 8,845 Commercial mortgage backed 2,126 4 9 2 2,141 Total mortgage backed securities $ 10,850 $ 60 $ 43 $ 26 $ 7 $ 10,986 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 60 $ 5 $ 6 $ 1 $ 4 $ 76 Credit Cards 53 15 6 74 Autos 312 44 5 8 369 Other 183 3 3 1 190 Total asset backed securities $ 608 $ 52 $ 29 $ 16 $ 4 $ 709 81 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed GNMA $ 395 $ $ $ $ $ 395 FNMA 4,340 4,340 Freddie Mac 1,999 1,999 Total agency RMBS 6,734 6,734 Non agency RMBS 2,454 84 63 43 7 2,651 Total RMBS 9,188 84 63 43 7 9,385 Commercial mortgage backed 2,434 4 9 3 2,450 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,622 $ 88 $ 72 $ 46 $ 7 $ 11,835 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 77 $ 6 $ 8 $ 1 $ 4 $ 96 Credit Cards 55 16 8 79 Autos 324 49 5 9 387 Other 187 5 3 195 Total asset backed securities $ 643 $ 60 $ 32 $ 18 $ 4 $ 757 Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. Refer to Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 1,165 $ 1,069 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 1,863 2,101 Other pledged assets 805 510 Trust funds 7,712 5,775 $ 11,545 $ 9,455 The value of restricted assets increased 22 percent in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the increased use of trust funds in support of inter company reinsurance and third party variable annuity business. 82 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2008 and 2007, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses $ 13,386 $ 13,990 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (451 ) (470 ) Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 12,935 13,520 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses 1,122 1,050 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (140 ) (216 ) Net reinsurance recoverable $ 13,917 $ 14,354 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits $ 259 $ 8 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decrease in reinsurance recoverable was due to a number of factors, the largest contributors are the decline due to foreign exchange revaluation of $387 million, collections on run off business of approximately $774 million, a decrease in gross and ceded IBNR on run off business as a result of a reserve review of $180 million offset by an increase of approximately $450 million of catastrophe losses ceded, primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The acquisition of Combined Insurance added $33 million to our reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses and $261 million to our reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits at the date of acquisition. Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, most A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings. As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities below. During 2008, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of December 31, 2007. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an independent actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. Management takes full responsibility for the estimation of its A&E liabilities. As a result of our internal review, we increased our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million (net of reinsurance provided by NICO), while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate net Brandywine liabilities that are little changed from a comparable study in 2006. We also decreased our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million (net of NICO), while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. 83 Table of Contents The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves (excludes Other run off liabilities), allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, and the provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables for the year ended December 31, 2008. Asbestos Environmental(2) Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net(1) Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 2,942 $ 1,482 $ 418 $ 393 $ 3,360 $ 1,875 Incurred activity 97 2 19 (2) 116 Payment activity (347) (99) (123) (75) (470) (174) Foreign currency revaluation (63) (16) (4) (2) (67) (18) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 2,629 $ 1,369 $ 310 $ 314 $ 2,939 $ 1,683 (1) The balance at December 31, 2007, was reduced by $10 million to reflect reserve reclassification between Asbestos and Other, refer to Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities. (2) At December 31, 2008, net environmental reserves are higher than gross environmental reserves because they include the provision for uncollectible paid reinsurance recoverables. The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2008, of $1.683 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.29 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $122 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $154 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda and $117 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the timing of the payment of the related claims. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from certain operations of Insurance Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine run off impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table presents Brandywine incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2008. Brandywine NICO Coverage(2) Net of NICO Coverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,344 $ 1,089 $ 2,433 $ 1,630 $ 803 Incurred activity 61 6 67 67 Payment activity (115) (83) (198) (213) 15 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 1,290 $ 1,012 $ 2,302 $ 1,417 $ 885 (1) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. The A&E and Other balances were increased by $21 million and $25 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007, to more properly reflect unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves as part of Brandywine. The Other reserve balance at December 31, 2007, was further increased by $24 million to reflect final activity on the fourth quarter 2007 NICO bordereau. As a result of these adjustments, the total A&E and Other balances at December 31, 2007, have been increased by $70 million. (2) The balance at December 31, 2007, has been increased by $33 million to reflect final activity on the fourth quarter 2007 NICO bordereau. 84 Table of Contents The incurred activity was primarily related to our internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities resulting in an increase to our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million, while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2008, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $530 million, which is only available for losses and loss adjustment expenses. The increase in the remaining unused limit was primarily in connection with recording the results of our internal reserve review. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. The table presents incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2008. Westchester Specialty NICO Coverage Net of NICO Coverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 214 $ 130 $ 344 $ 298 $ 46 Incurred activity (51 ) (3 ) (54 ) (41 ) (13 ) Payment activity (41 ) (2 ) (43 ) (41 ) (2 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 122 $ 125 $ 247 $ 216 $ 31 (1) The A&E balance at December 31, 2007, has been reduced by $10 million to reflect reserve classification between Asbestos and Other. Other reserves, which consist primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses, were increased by $10 million at December 31, 2007. The incurred activity was primarily related to our internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities resulting in a decrease to our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million (net of NICO), while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Reserving considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites, we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2008 2007 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,169 1,391 Newly reported 75 87 Closed or otherwise disposed 46 309 Open at end of year 1,198 1,169 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 5,132 6,424 Newly reported 250 206 Closed or otherwise disposed 678 1,498 Open at end of year 4,704 5,132 85 Table of Contents Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly higher in 2007, compared with 2008, following a review in 2007 of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 Survival Ratios 2007 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 8.3 9.6 8.3 18.2 10.2 10.7 10.6 10.6 Environmental 3.5 5.3 2.7 4.5 4.5 6.6 5.7 9.8 Total 7.2 8.2 6.8 11.2 8.9 9.3 9.6 10.4 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2008 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves, and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year gross survival ratios for both asbestos and environmental decreased markedly from 2007 due to a number of large settlements in 2008. This has resulted in a decline in the three year gross ratios as well, though to a lesser degree than seen in the 1 year ratios. The 1 year net asbestos ratio of 18.2 was abnormally high because of the relatively large ceded reinsurance associated with asbestos payments in 2008. Brandywine run off entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer), and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. Pursuant to an interpretation of the Brandywine restructuring order, the full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. Under the Restructuring Order, while any obligation to maintain the Dividend Retention Fund is in effect, to the extent dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The Dividend Retention Fund may not be terminated without prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner. In addition, an ACE INA insurance subsidiary provided reinsurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2008, was $25 million and approximately $112 million in statutory basis losses have been ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on an inception to date basis. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its liabilities, including certain asbestos related and environmental pollution liabilities. The reduction in 2008 in statutory basis losses ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement resulted principally from the cession of certain reinsurance amounts associated with estimates of reinsurer bad debt, to affiliated ACE companies, and from an increase in discount benefit. For 86 Table of Contents GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on a GAAP basis, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves and we adjust the statutory provision for uncollectible reinsurance to a GAAP basis amount. At December 31, 2008, approximately $407 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $393 million. At December 31, 2007, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $228 million. The reduction in GAAP basis losses ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement resulted principally from the previously mentioned cession of certain reinsurance bad debts to affiliated ACE companies. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to include any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties relating to ACEs ultimate Brandywine exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental, and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.3 billion. At December 31, 2008, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $3.1 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2008, approximately $1.4 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due from Century to its affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2008, losses ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $465 million in the aggregate. Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world. Our modeled annual aggregate 1 in 100 year return period U.S. hurricane probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $1.2 billion; i.e., according to the model there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.2 billion (or nine percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2008). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $141 billion. Our modeled single occurrence 1 in 100 return period California earthquake probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $887 million; i.e., according to the model there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any single California earthquake event could be in excess of $887 million (or approximately six percent our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2008). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, the industry losses would be approximately $39 billion. ACEs modeled losses reflect our in force portfolio as of October 1, 2008 and reinsurance program as of January 1, 2009. The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 87 Table of Contents Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2009, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage with the first layer being $200 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. We also purchased a reinsurance treaty that provides $95 million part of $150 million in coverage for U.S. property perils other than U.S. wind in excess of $700 million. In addition, to complement our core program, we purchased $50 million part of $150 million in excess of $960 million and approximately 50 percent of $49 million in excess of $911 million. Each program noted above has a single reinstatement available. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $712 million. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. This cover is $50 million part of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of an attachment point of $690 million. Finally, we also purchased a combined U.S. earthquake (covering the three territories noted above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of $100 million part of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of an attachment point of $960 million. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Fifty percent of the $200 million in excess of the $712 million attachment point in wind coverage, noted above, will expire in June 2009. We expect to replace this layer with a like amount of coverage but the final placement will be dependent upon price and terms available at that time. By way of comparison, the 2009 program has potentially approximately $20 million more in coverage for U.S. hurricane and California earthquake than the expiring program but our retention has increased. We consider our effective retention to be approximately $500 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of the U.S. and effective July 1, 2008, our core program is made up of two layers. We have protection of $50 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. In addition, we have another layer that provides $150 million in protection in excess of $100 million with one reinstatement. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million in excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million in excess of $250 million for Europe. Each of these top layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layers for Asia Pacific and Europe provide the same amount of coverage. Crop Insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and conduct that business through Rain and Hail L.L.C., a managing general agency (MGA). We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance book comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover crop losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail 88 Table of Contents exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarter and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. The premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. During the first quarter of each calendar year our MGA reports to us the results from the previous crop year. Typically, this results in an adjustment to the previously estimated losses and loss expenses and profit share commission which impacts our policy acquisition costs. For example, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the 2007 crop year settlement reduced our losses and loss expenses by approximately $105 million and gave rise to $44 million in profit share commission resulting in a net pre tax benefit to income of approximately $61 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted over the past year. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, and our investment performance. However, we believe that our present cash flows from operations, investing activities and financing activities are sufficient to fund our working capital and debt obligation needs. We do not expect this to change in the near term due in part to factors such as the following: ACEs balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital base. Our shareholders equity was $14 billion at December 31, 2008. Cash and AAA rated invested assets were $24 billion at December 31, 2008. Our sub prime portfolio represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008, and we hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations. We provide no credit default protection. We do not anticipate changes in our core insurance and reinsurance operations which would significantly impact liquidity, and we continue to maintain reinsurance contracts which limit the impact of potential catastrophic events. Our cash flows from operations have been relatively consistent, averaging over a $1 billion per quarter for the last five years. We expect our core insurance and reinsurance operations to continue to provide us with consistent cash flows going forward. Refer to Cash Flows, below. Financial flexibility at the holding company level remains strong given our operating companies dividend capacity. We anticipate minimal refinancing needs of existing debt over the next five years. Beyond five years, our current strategy is to schedule no more than $600 million maturing in any one year. Refer to the Contractual Obligations and Commitments table below. We have no main credit facility expiring within the next three years, and unused available credit of $729 million at December 31, 2008. We are not reliant on a single bank or group of banks and have not experienced unwillingness by our lenders to permit access to our existing credit facilities. At December 31, 2008, the minimum consolidated net worth require 89 Table of Contents ment under covenants related to our main credit facilities was $11.97 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under applicable covenants was $16.2 billion. Refer to Credit Facilities, below. On December 19, 2008, Standard & Poors announced that it was revising its outlook on ACE Limited and ACEs core operating insurance companies to positive from stable. S&P also reaffirmed all of ACEs counterparty credit and financial strength ratings, including its A+ Financial Strength rating for the core operating companies. This is important since our customers look to our financial strength ratings when assessing our claims paying ability, and certain of our credit facilities include financial strength covenants. Refer to Ratings, below. Throughout 2008, we were successful in executing securities repurchase agreements as a low cost financing alternative to short term debt, which allowed us to avoid liquidating higher yielding or temporarily distressed assets in our investment portfolio. We have not recently relied on the securitization markets for liquidity and therefore are not impacted by its current state. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. We have filed a shelf registration statement, expiring in December 2011, under which we may issue debt or equity securities. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. We expect that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2009. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2008, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.6 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (3.9 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investment, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2008, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares, Common Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. Should the need arise, we would expect to have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2008, ACE Bermuda declared and paid dividends of $502 million ($168 million in the prior year period), and ACE Tempest Life Re declared and paid dividends of $1.2 billion ($nil in the prior year period). A portion of the dividends received were used in connection with the acquisition of Combined Insurance. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2009 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior 90 Table of Contents regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2008 and 2007. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.7 billion in 2007. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income in 2008 was $1.2 billion compared with $2.6 billion in 2007. For 2008, significant adjustments included net realized gains (losses) of $1.6 billion, unpaid losses and loss expenses of $1.3 billion and accounts payable/accrued expenses of $638 million. The unpaid losses and loss expenses were significantly impacted by third quarter catastrophes and the first quarter settlement of the crop/hail business. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.5 billion in 2007. For the indicated periods, net investing activities were related primarily to net purchases and maturities on the fixed maturities portfolio and for 2008 included the acquisition of Combined Insurance of $2.56 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $314 million in 2008, compared with net cash flows used for financing activities of $253 million in 2007. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2008, include $1.2 billion net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt, partially offset by $575 million of net cash flows used for financing activities relating to the redemption of our Preferred Shares and dividends on our Common and Preferred Shares of $386 million. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs in order to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. We also utilize reverse securities repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. We utilized this funding source to fund part of the purchase of Combined Insurance. Refer to Short term Debt. 91 Table of Contents Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Short term debt $ 471 $ 372 Long term debt 2,806 1,811 Total debt 3,277 2,183 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 Common shareholders equity 14,446 16,120 Total shareholders equity 14,446 16,677 Total capitalization $ 18,032 $ 19,169 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 18.2% 11.4% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 19.9% 13.0% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities, which includes Common Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2008, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf registration capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen or opportunistic capital needs. Our currently effective unlimited shelf registration statement expires in December 2011. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have increased due to the decrease in shareholders equity and increase in debt. The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total shareholders equity, beginning of year $ 16,677 Net income 1,197 Dividends declared on Common Shares (364 ) Dividends declared on Preferred Shares (24 ) Redemption of Preferred Shares (575 ) Proceeds from exercise of stock options 97 Change (depreciation) on investments, net of income tax (2,302 ) Cumulative translation adjustment, net of income tax (392 ) Other movements, net 132 Total shareholders equity, end of year $ 14,446 Total shareholders equity decreased $2.2 billion in 2008 due to several factors. Net income of $1.2 billion included realized losses after tax of $1 billion on our investment portfolio and net fair value losses of $486 million on GMIBs. The change in net unrealized deprecation on investments of $2.3 billion was primarily due to the widening of credit spreads and the decline of the global equity markets. The cumulative translation declined as major currencies declined against the U.S. dollar. 92 Table of Contents Short term Debt At December 31, 2008, short term debt included $205 million of 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes maturing in December 2009, and a $16 million term loan maturing in September 2009 (refer to Long Term debt). In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes that mature December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $200 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with this issuance. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $70 million. In the event that we terminate the swap prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. Prior to the maturity of the 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes, we will evaluate the public and private debt markets, and if terms at the desired tenor are inconsistent with our capital objectives, we may choose to retire the notes with available cash. We have executed reverse repurchase agreements with certain counterparties whereby we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a date in the future for a predetermined price. During 2008, these included reverse repurchase agreements totaling $1 billion as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition and the October 2008 repayment of $250 million of ACE US Holdings senior notes. At December 31, 2008, short term debt included $250 million of amounts owed to brokers under reverse repurchase agreements. These agreements expired on February 4, 2009, at which time we entered into another $250 million reverse repurchase agreement with a 90 day term. In December 2008, we repaid the Australia Holdings PTY Ltd. AUD $100 million ($87 million at December 31, 2007) syndicated unsecured term loan. Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $2.8 billion is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In February 2008, ACE INA issued $300 million of 5.8 percent senior notes due March 2018 and, in April 2008, we entered into a $450 million unsecured term loan repayable in April 2013. The proceeds of the above referenced reverse repurchase agreements, the notes, and the term loan were applied to pay a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition of Combined Insurance. In connection with the term loan, we simultaneously entered into a $450 million swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate at 4.15 percent for the term of the loan. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. In May 2008, ACE INA issued $450 million of 5.6 percent senior notes, due May 2015. The net proceeds plus available cash were used to redeem all $575 million of the 7.8 percent Preferred Shares and related depository shares in June 2008. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In December 2008, ACE INA Holdings entered into a $66 million dual tranche floating interest rate term loan agreement. The first tranche, a $50 million three year term loan due December 2011, has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Simultaneously, we entered into a swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate, excluding fees and expenses, at 5.61 percent for the full term of the loan. The second tranche, a $16 million nine month term loan, due September 2009, has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Simultaneously, we entered into a swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate, excluding fees and expenses, at 3.02 percent for the full term of the loan. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. The loan is unsecured and repayable on maturity and contains customary limitations on lien provisions as well as customary events of default provisions which, if breached, could result in the accelerated maturity of such debt. The obligation of the borrower under the loan agreement is guaranteed by ACE Limited. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. 93 Table of Contents Common Shares In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs and increased the par value of Ordinary Shares from $0.041666667 to CHF 33.74. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. At December 31, 2008, the par value of the Common Shares was CHF 33.14 following two quarterly par value reductions in the amount of CHF 0.30. Refer to Effects of the Continuation on Dividends, below. Effects of the Continuation on Dividends We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. For information on dividend payment and timing, refer to Item 5 of this Form 10 K. Under Swiss law all dividends and distributions through a reduction in par value must be approved in advance by our shareholders, though the determination of the record and payment dates may be delegated to our Board of Directors. Swiss law permits distributions to shareholders by way of par value reductions if (a) after the implementation of the par value reduction the reduced aggregate nominal value of the share capital and the statutory reserves is covered by net assets, (b) they are approved by shareholders at a general meeting, (c) our Swiss statutory auditor confirms to the general meeting in a written report that the claims of the creditors are fully covered despite the par value reduction, (d) creditors are informed by way of public notification in the Swiss Commercial Gazette that they can within two months ask for discharge of or the posting of security for their claims and (e) the par value reduction is registered in the Swiss commercial register. We currently intend, subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and the needs of our business, to propose at each annual general meeting, beginning with our annual general meeting in 2009, a reduction in par value that will be effected in four quarterly installments. The amount of a proposed par value reduction will be based on the Board of Directors determination of an appropriate U.S. dollar dividend for the succeeding year and will be converted into Swiss francs for purposes of obtaining shareholder approval based on the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the annual general meeting. At our 2008 annual general meeting, our shareholders approved payments of a dividend in the form of a par value reduction equal to CHF 0.90 per Common Share in the aggregate (equivalent at the time to U.S. $0.87 per Common Share), to be paid in three equal quarterly installments of CHF 0.30 (each equivalent at the time to U.S. $0.29 per Common Share). Dividends, including distributions through a reduction in par value, must be declared by ACE in Swiss francs. However, we have arranged it such that these distributions are paid to our shareholders in U.S. dollars at the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment date. As a result, under the current process, shareholders will be exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate between the date a dividend amount is determined and the relevant dividend payment date. For example, on January 12, 2009, we paid a quarterly dividend (through a reduction in par value) of U.S. $0.27 per Common Share to shareholders of record as of December 17, 2008. The payment amount was based on the January 5, 2009, U.S. dollar/Swiss Franc exchange rate of 1.083 applied to the quarterly par value reduction installment amount of CHF 0.30 referenced above. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The board of directors of a Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders meeting may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. As noted above, for the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. 94 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2008. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 345 $ 44 $ 112 $ 30 $ 159 Purchase obligations 595 108 322 165 Limited partnerships funding commitments 863 334 408 58 63 Operating leases 351 68 108 75 100 Short term debt 471 471 Long term debt 2,806 199 450 2,157 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,196 210 369 342 1,275 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 7,936 1,235 1,518 1,120 4,063 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,176 9,445 10,371 5,493 11,867 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 4,280 284 461 366 3,169 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 49,392 $ 10,964 $ 12,350 $ 6,979 $ 19,099 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in accordance with issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The FIN 48 liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, was $150 million at December 31, 2008. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of December 31, 2008, we had $14 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $310 million and contract holder deposit funds of $35 million at December 31, 2008. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. 95 Table of Contents Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $863 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, GMDBs and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for funds at Lloyds. 96 Table of Contents The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 500 $ 142 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 811 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited3 438 256 Dec. 2013 Total $ 1,938 $ 1,209 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) May also be used for LOCs. (3) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2008. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $11.7 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2008, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $11.97 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $16.2 billion and b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.182 to 1. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest, and preferred stock dividends. 97 Table of Contents It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Similarly, we have private debt that would require us to post additional collateral if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2008, a one notch downgrade of our S&P financial strength rating would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted (less than $25 million). Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 21 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty Ltd.) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates, and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or a determination is made to incur a charge for impairment. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $10.3 billion and $15.8 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2008. Our policies to address these risks in 2008 were not materially different from 2007. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. 98 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 37,370 $ 38,830 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,329 $ 1,281 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.6 % 3.3 % Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, Preferred Shares (redeemed in 2008), and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,344 $ 3,169 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 179 $ 235 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 5.3 % 7.4 % Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of equity securities $ 988 $ 1,837 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 99 $ 184 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 99 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,127 $ 1,651 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 7.8% 9.9% Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 84 $ 150 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. These reserves are calculated in accordance with SOP 03 1 (SOP reserves) and changes in these reserves are reflected as life and annuity benefit expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative according to FAS 133. The fair value liability established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the SOP 03 1 reserves. Changes in the fair value of the GMIB liability, net of associated changes in the calculated SOP 03 1 reserve, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. The ultimate risk to the variable annuity guaranty reinsurance business is a long term underperformance of investment returns, which can be exacerbated by a long term reduction in interest rates. Following a market downturn, continued market underperformance over a period of five to seven years would eventually result in a higher level of paid claims as policyholders accessed their guarantees through death or annuitization. However, if market conditions improved following a downturn, SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability would fall reflecting a decreased likelihood of future claims, which would result in an increase in both life underwriting income and net income. As of December 31, 2008, management established the SOP 03 1 reserve based on the benefit ratio calculated using actual market values at December 31, 2008. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the SOP 03 1 reserve. The SOP 03 1 reserve is based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Management will, in keeping with the language in SOP 03 1, regularly examine both quantitative and qualitative analysis and management will determine if, in its judgment, the change in the calculated benefit ratio is of sufficient magnitude and has persisted for a sufficient duration to warrant a change in the benefit ratio used to establish the SOP 03 1 reserve. This has no impact on either premium received or claims paid nor does it impact the long term profit or loss of the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. The SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The table below shows the sensitivity, as of December 31, 2008, of the SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes instruments purchased in January 2009, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Although these derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment, some portion of the change in value may be used to offset changes in the SOP 03 1 reserve. 100 Table of Contents The following table provides more information on our exposure to variable annuity sensitivities to equities and interest rates at December 31, 2008. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 89 $ 25 $ (60 ) $ (166) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 222 135 55 (15 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (80 ) (20 ) 46 118 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 231 $ 140 $ 41 $ (63 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 69 $ $ (91 ) $ (204 ) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 91 (89 ) (168 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (61 ) 67 140 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 99 $ $ (113) $ (232 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 33 $ (41 ) $ (138 ) $ (258 ) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL (87 ) (189 ) (281 ) (356 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (40 ) 22 90 163 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ (94 ) $ (208) $ (329 ) $ (451 ) A rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 65 (104) (6 ) 7 (6 ) 2 (Increase)/decrease in hedge value 5 (5 ) (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 65 $ (104 ) $ (6 ) $ 7 $ (1 ) $ (3 ) Mortality Lapses Annuitization Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions (in millions of U.S. dollars) +10% 10% +25% 25% +25% 25% (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ (26 ) $ 27 $ 20 $ (23 ) $ (11 ) $ 14 (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 11 (11 ) 135 (166 ) (97 ) 105 (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (Increase)/decrease in net income $ (15 ) $ 16 $ 155 $ (189 ) $ (108 ) $ 119 The above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in A rated credit spreads impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The table above demonstrates, for example, that a 10 percent decrease in worldwide equities, all else equal, would increase our SOP 03 1 reserves by $91 million (subject to management judgment as described above) and cause a net realized loss of $89 million, offset by an increase in hedge value of $67 million, for a total reduction in net income of $113 million. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2008 market levels, but includes hedges entered into in January 2009. Because the new hedges were purchased after December 31, 2008, the increase (decrease) in hedge value for each of the above scenarios relative to December 31, 2008 market conditions, would be $25 million lower (higher). The above sensitivities are not directly additive, because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. 101 Table of Contents If the global equity market were to experience a 20 percent decrease from levels at December 31, 2008, all else being equal, any additional incremental capital required over the increase in SOP 03 1 reserves, would be approximately offset by the increase in value of currently held hedge assets. Changes in other market factors have a minor impact on required capital. However, we would be required to post additional collateral. From inception (July 2000) to December 31, 2008, the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio has produced the following cumulative results. Any increase in SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability should be taken in context of these results: Net premiums earned $1.06 billion Claims paid $104 million SOP 03 1 reserves held at December 31, 2008 $347 million Fair value GMIB liability held at December 31, 2008 $811 million Life underwriting income $685 million Net loss $11 million 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain significant operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is now headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries. We serve the property and casualty (P&C) insurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health and life insurance to individuals in select countries. Our reinsurance operations include both P&C and life companies. At December 31, 2008, ACE had total assets of approximately $72 billion and shareholders equity of approximately $14 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Redomestication to Zurich, Switzerland In July 2008, our shareholders approved proposals submitted by our Board of Directors to transfer our domicile from the Cayman Islands to Zurich, in Switzerland, our new jurisdiction of incorporation (the Continuation). As a result of the Continuation, we are deregistered in the Cayman Islands and are now subject to Swiss law. In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. All Common Shares are registered shares with a current par value of CHF 33.14 each. Notwithstanding the change of the currency in which the par value of Common Shares is stated, we continue to use U.S. dollars as our reporting and functional currency for preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. For the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8 for more information. 37 Table of Contents The Combined Insurance Acquisition On April 1, 2008, ACE acquired all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries from Aon Corporation for $2.56 billion. Combined Insurance, founded in 1919 is headquartered in Glenview, Illinois, and is a leading underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, and Asia Pacific. Combined Insurance serves close to four million policyholders worldwide. This acquisition has diversified our accident and health (A&H) distribution capabilities by adding a significant agent base, while almost doubling our A&H franchise. We believe this will provide significant long term growth opportunities. Our A&H operations have represented an increasing portion of our business in recent years. Within our A&H operations (including Combined Insurance), our primary business is personal accident. We are not in the primary health care business. Our products include, but are not limited to, accidental death, accidental disability, supplemental medical, hospital indemnity, and income protection coverages. With respect to our supplemental medical and hospital indemnity products, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are, therefore, insulated from rising health care costs. ACE recorded the Combined Insurance acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. The interim Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Combined Insurance beginning April 1, 2008. The acquisition generated $928 million of goodwill and other intangible assets, based on ACEs purchase price allocation. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment as the products are similar to our current life operations. The results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment as the products have similar economic characteristics and are distributed outside of the North American insurance markets. Refer to Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8 for more information. Market Conditions The property and casualty insurance industry began 2008 with excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital. Since then, natural catastrophes and financial market losses have destroyed a great deal of this excess capital. Additionally, downgrades and government ownership have impaired the ability of a number of companies to deploy their capital and operate in the same manner as they have in the past. The P&C underwriting environment, particularly rates, improved during the fourth quarter of 2008 and into the first quarter of 2009. This trend was more obvious in certain specialty and stressed classes. The rate of change varies by territory, where the greatest improvements have been in North America, followed by the London company market, Australia, and Latin America. We believe that due to our strong balance sheet, geographic presence, and product breadth, we are beginning to benefit from a flight to quality and where rate is adequate, we are writing more business, improving our position on accounts, and gaining market share. Where rate is not adequate, we are walking away and in some classes, continuing to shed business. While the relationship between rates to risk exposure is improving, exposure is declining due to recession, resulting in improved underwriting margins but not necessarily more premium. In North America, we are seeing substantially more opportunity to quote business as a result of market turmoil. Submissions are up significantly, though our quote to close ratios have dropped modestly given our pricing discipline. In those lines where rate is adequate, we are benefiting from the weakness of others by improving our position on accounts, moving into primary lead or first excess position for example, in excess casualty, directors and officers liability (D&O), environmental and medical liability. We are also gaining new business in certain lines where we already enjoy a strong lead position such as our E&O business and risk management division. There are also classes where our retention rates and new business writings are being negatively impacted by continued inadequate pricing such as both large account and catastrophe exposed property, E&S casualty, and due to recession, construction related business. Our international business has also seen improvement in the fourth quarter of 2008, our P&C business in original currency experienced its best quarter of the year, increasing six percent over the third quarter, while A&H was up 15 percent over the same period. We deliberately shrank our reinsurance business in 2008, due to the competitive market conditions. However, during the first quarter of 2009, Global Reinsurance experienced improved pricing in many classes, and although U.S. casualty remains competitive, we gained revenue from improved signings due to competitor weakness and more clients looking for a reinsurance solution to solve a capital need. In reinsurance, we are noticing more clients willing to pay more though in most cases not dramatically more to have ACE on their program. Although, the relationship between rates and risk exposure is improving and rates are improving, we cannot predict with any certainty how long these conditions will continue. We believe that the current recession is impacting exposures and clients insurance budgets and this along with foreign exchange weakness relative to the U.S. dollar, will negatively impact growth rates in 2009. 38 Table of Contents We are continuing to invest in people and infrastructure to grow our presence in lines of businesses globally where we see an opportunity for ACE to grow market share at reasonable terms. We are also continuing to invest in our enterprise risk management capability, our systems and data environment, and our research and development capabilities. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB); and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). The reserves provide for liabilities that exist for the Company as of the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2008, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.2 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $24.2 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $106 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses Reinsurance Recoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,831 3,480 7,351 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,516 ) (3,582 ) (5,934 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 280 113 167 Balance at December 31, 2007 37,112 13,520 23,592 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,944 3,341 7,603 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,899 ) (3,572 ) (6,327 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,367 ) (387 ) (980 ) Losses and loss expenses acquired 386 33 353 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 39 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 16,583 $ 6,539 $ 10,044 $ 15,625 $ 6,077 $ 9,548 IBNR 20,593 6,396 14,197 21,487 7,443 14,044 Total $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The following table segregates the loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,180 $ 1,367 $ 1,813 $ 2,901 $ 1,256 $ 1,645 Loss expenses 264 92 172 230 55 175 IBNR 2,456 1,084 1,372 2,824 1,095 1,729 Subtotal 5,900 2,543 3,357 5,955 2,406 3,549 Casualty Case reserves 8,700 3,178 5,522 8,747 3,150 5,597 Loss expenses 3,871 1,779 2,092 3,348 1,544 1,804 IBNR 17,455 5,144 12,311 18,070 6,193 11,877 Subtotal 30,026 10,101 19,925 30,165 10,887 19,278 A&H Case reserves 536 121 415 370 68 302 Loss expenses 32 2 30 29 4 25 IBNR 682 168 514 593 155 438 Subtotal 1,250 291 959 992 227 765 Total Case reserves 12,416 4,666 7,750 12,018 4,474 7,544 Loss expenses 4,167 1,873 2,294 3,607 1,603 2,004 IBNR 20,593 6,396 14,197 21,487 7,443 14,044 Total $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. 40 Table of Contents We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns and industry data as needed. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary, qualitative, and subjective factors. Among some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and / or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made where appropriate to how consideration in method selection impacted 2008 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly development periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data 41 Table of Contents is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as they often have a sufficient history and volume of claims experience to be credible. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line and establish an actuarial central estimate at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuaries, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: Segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; Extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; Historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; Perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and Nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are 42 Table of Contents reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.2 billion and represents eight percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2008. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2008 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2008. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2008 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more judgmental relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset the impact of recent favorable loss development. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2008 calendar year arose from the 2006 and 2007 accident years. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance segments experienced $220 million, $173 million, and $142 million of favorable development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2006 and 2007 accident years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2006 and 2007 accident years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2003 2005 accident years that resulted from a detailed review. The changes to the ultimate losses were principally related to recognition of the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. 43 Table of Contents For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2008, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is often too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2008 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2008 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. While recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations, we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible for us to consider moving to loss based projection methods in setting reserves for the more recent years. Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to 44 Table of Contents the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2008 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2008 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to alter either our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. For the 2007 and 2008 origin years, our best estimate reflects what we believe to be our exposure to credit crunch related claims (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature accident years, typically 2004 and prior, we relied upon paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2008 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically in more mature origin years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2008 that differed notably from the expected loss emergence and where such deviations were deemed significant enough to warrant revising the projections for certain product lines. The nature of the changes to the assumptions in 2008, and the associated impact on the prior accident years, varies by product line. For example, in Insurance North American the changes to recorded estimates for national account casualty lines, medical risk lines, and Canada P&C operations involved assigning greater credibility to actual loss experience; i.e. more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods mainly on accident years 2005 and prior. This resulted in $32 million, $46 million, and $51 million of favorable development, respectively. Similarly, for the ACE International division within Insurance Overseas General, there was $159 million of favorable development mainly on accident years 2005 and prior as more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2008, refer to Prior Period Development. While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $45 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $270 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and gross limits of $150 million or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million and gross limits of $50 million or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $150 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. 45 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2000 2006 by approximately $254 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.7 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $217 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.5 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2008, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.5 billion, consisting of $836 million of case reserves and $1.7 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2007, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $740 million of case reserves and $1.9 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. 46 Table of Contents On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2008, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $811 million, compared with the $836 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2008, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of December 31, 2007. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an independent actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. Management takes full responsibility for the estimation of its A&E liabilities. As a result of our internal review, we increased our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million, while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate net Brandywine liabilities that are little changed from a comparable study in 2006. We also decreased our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million, while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life Insurance and Reinsurance segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, and endowment products. We establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. 47 Table of Contents As part of purchase accounting related to the Combined Insurance acquisition, we applied fair value accounting to the future policy benefit reserves acquired. An additional liability resulted primarily as a result of using current interest rates and an adjusted risk margin. We applied this fair value adjustment by essentially unlocking the future policy benefit reserves and then locking in the new assumptions which will be subject to the same premium deficiency analysis as the original reserves. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to present value the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively DAC) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. DAC is tested along with the future policy benefit reserves regularly for premium deficiencies of which we have not identified any significant deficiencies. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had 48 Table of Contents not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $363 million of net premiums earned in 2008, comprised of $250 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $113 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts subject to the terms of the reinsurance contracts. The recognition of reinsurance recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, this estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross reserves. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses. The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded reserves are allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded reserves are not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 49 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on capital charges previously applied by a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which we have not adopted a rating equivalent, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses as well as the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Losses andLoss Expenses Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,108 $ 10,143 $ 253 Reinsurers not rated 493 408 136 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 196 180 125 Captives 1,650 385 28 Other structured settlements and pools 1,061 1,061 49 Total $ 14,508 $ 12,177 $ 591 At December 31, 2008, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e, from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $171 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 50 Table of Contents Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using observable inputs where available such as the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services; or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. If significant observable inputs are unavailable, we rely on unobservable inputs to determine fair value. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities for which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities for which fair value is below cost) for other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in the consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. Given current market conditions, and in light of recent general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we have qualitatively evaluated our application of the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. Similar to prior quarters, we evaluated investments in our portfolio where cost exceeded fair value and made certain judgments as to our ability to recover our cost. Our analysis in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 required we consider carefully the duration and severity of decline and the root causes thereof. Specifically, we further evaluated whether declines were related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions, and therefore more likely to be temporary, or were instead related to specific credit events or issuer performance, and therefore more likely to be other than temporarily impaired. Using this refined evaluation process resulted in a lower dollar value of investments in an unrealized loss position being deemed other than temporarily impaired in comparison to our previous evaluation process. We believe the underlying credit quality of the portfolio supports the use of our modified approach. Refer to Note 4 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, which includes a table that summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are the result of changing or unforeseen facts and circumstances (e.g., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), deterioration of the credit worthiness of the issuer or its industry, or changes in regulatory requirements. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of the portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2008, for all securities in a loss position was $3.2 billion with $684 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months ($20 million was related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2008 included write downs of $1.1 billion of which $760 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $141 million and $214 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The other than temporary impairments recorded in 2008 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates resulting from volatility and widening credit spreads; issuer defaults, of which Lehman Brothers was the most significant to us; and significant declines in global equity markets. The other than temporary impairments recorded in 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). 51 Table of Contents Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2008, our net deferred tax asset was $1.8 billion. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the valuation allowance of $35 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives Under reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum income benefits associated with variable annuity contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net realized gains (losses) in the period of the change pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133). We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with AICPA Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non traditional Long duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). Changes in this reserve are included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and SOP 03 1 benefit reserves is reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying annuities through lapses, annuitization or death. At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. Refer to Note 2j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices and other assumptions on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. 52 Table of Contents A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Prior to 2008, we had very limited actual reported experience related to annuitization rates and relied primarily on judgment to determine this assumption. During 2008, actual annuitization experience, as well as available industry experience, has developed to allow us to refine this assumption. As a result of our normal quarterly reserve review we made several assumption changes in our variable annuity valuation models in the fourth quarter of 2008, the most meaningful of which were related to mortality and annuitization behavior. These changes, which had both a positive and negative impact, were made in response to a combination of emerging new and validated experience on the ACE business and industry data we obtained in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in aggregate benefited net income by approximately $470 million. The vast majority of which is related to the impact of assumption changes on the fair value liability affecting all future cash flows on a present value basis in income in the current period. Net realized losses for 2008 included $650 million for GMIB reinsurance excluding realized gains of $164 million on derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These losses were principally driven by decreasing interest rates and equity markets. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Net realized losses for GMIB reinsurance included $185 million and $NIL for 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the capital required to support the variable annuity guaranty business is approximately $400 million. If the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index were to drop from its level of 903 at December 31, 2008 to a level of 700, all else being equal, any additional capital required would be approximately offset by the increase in value of currently held hedge assets. However, we would be required to post additional collateral. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All variable annuity guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract but some examples of typical contract provisions include: Annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured Account or Guaranteed Value, for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB) and GMIBs Annual Annuitization Rate Limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible Account or Guaranteed Value, for GMIBs A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $280 million, and $70 million, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparty, on a daily basis. We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. ACE Tempest Life Re did not quote on new or renewal variable annuity transactions in 2008 and the aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5% 10% annually. 53 Table of Contents Note that GMIB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first annuitization eligibility Percent ofliving accountvalues 2009 2% 2010 &lt;1% 2011 &lt;1% 2012 1% 2013 21% 2014 25% 2015 11% 2016 5% 2017 10% 2018+ 24% Total 100% The following table provides the historic cash flows under these policies for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 123 $ 125 less Paid Claims 67 9 $ 56 $ 116 Living Benefits Premium $ 145 $ 107 less Paid Claims $ 145 $ 107 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 268 $ 232 less Paid Claims 67 9 $ 201 $ 223 Amounts represent past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. Death Benefits (GMDB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring GMDBs. Approximately 65 percent of our GMDB guaranteed value has an annual claim limit expressed as two percent of the total account value reinsured. This limit falls as account values fall in a declining market. Using our current mortality assumptions we expect approximately $164 million of claims and $108 million of premium on death benefits during 2009. Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring predominantly GMIBs and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB), collectively known as Living Benefits. Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. These policyholders begin to become eligible in 2013. Using our current mortality assumptions we expect approximately $2 million of claims and $129 million of premium on living benefits during 2009. 54 Table of Contents In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, equal to their statutory ceded reserves. ACE Tempest Life Re maintains sufficient qualified assets to meet its funding requirements. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets acquired, was $3.6 billion at December 31, 2008. The ACE INA and Combined Insurance acquisitions represent approximately 87 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment tests in 2008, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the North American and international divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value models apply multiples of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model allocates our market capitalization to each reporting unit. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Fair Value Measurements We partially adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157) on January 1, 2008. FAS 157 defines fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establishes a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with FAS 157 valuation principles. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all investments have been valued in accordance with FAS 157. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. Volatility and widening credit spreads during the second half of 2008 adversely affected the values of certain of our securities. However, we believe there was sufficient market activity to price securities under FAS 157 in a manner consistent with prior periods. At December 31, 2008, our Level 3 assets represented approximately five percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and three percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2008, our Level 3 liabilities represented approximately 21 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and less than two percent of our total liabilities. During 2008, we transferred $176 million out of Level 3. The following is a description of the valuation measurements used for our financial instruments (Levels 1, 2, and 3) carried or disclosed at fair value, as well as the general classification of such financial instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. 55 Table of Contents Fixed maturities with active markets such as U.S. Treasury and agency securities are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. For fixed maturities that trade in less active markets, including corporate and municipal securities, fair values are based on the output of pricing matrix models, the significant inputs into which include, but are not limited to, yield curves, credit risks and spreads, measures of volatility, and prepayment speeds. These fixed maturities are classified within Level 2. Our pricing methodologies incorporate back testing of valuation techniques as a standard part of our process. Fixed maturities for which pricing is unobservable are classified within Level 3. Equity securities with active markets are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. For non public equity securities, fair values are based on market valuations and are classified within Level 2. Short term investments, which comprise securities due to mature within one year of the date of purchase that are traded in active markets, are classified within Level 1 as fair values are based on quoted market prices. Securities such as commercial paper and discount notes are classified within Level 2 because these securities are typically not actively traded due to their approaching maturity and, as such, their cost approximating par value. Fair values for other investments, principally other direct equity investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships, are based on the net asset value or financial statements and are included within Level 3. Equity securities and fixed maturities held in rabbi trusts maintained by ACE for deferred compensation plans, and included in Other investments, are classified within the valuation hierarchy on the same basis as our other equity securities and fixed maturities. The fair value of our investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. included in Investments in partially owned insurance companies is based on a quoted market price and is classified within Level 1. Fair values for investments in partially owned insurance companies based on the financial statements provided by those companies used for equity accounting are classified within Level 3. For actively traded investment derivative instruments, including futures, options, and exchange traded forward contracts, we obtain quoted market prices to determine fair value. As such, these instruments are included within Level 1. Forward contracts that are not exchange traded are priced using a pricing matrix model principally employing observable inputs and, as such, are classified within Level 2. Our position in interest rate and credit default swaps is typically classified within Level 3. For GMIB reinsurance, we estimate fair value using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The cumulative effect of partially adopting FAS 157 resulted in a reduction to retained earnings of $4 million related to an increase in risk margins included in the valuation of certain GMIB contracts. The fair value depends on a number of inputs, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, credit risk, current account value, changes in market volatility, expected annuitization rates, changes in policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. The effect of changes in key market factors on assumed lapse and annuitization rates reflect emerging trends using actual data available from cedants. For treaties with limited experience, rates are established in line with data received from other ceding companies adjusted as appropriate with industry estimates. We view our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of a cumulative long term economic net loss relatively small. However, adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an adverse impact on both our life underwriting income and our net income, which may be material. Because of the significant use of unobservable inputs including policyholder behavior, GMIB reinsurance is classified within Level 3. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Reinsurance of GMIB and GMDB guarantees. We maintain positions in other derivative instruments including option contracts designed to limit long term exposure to a severe equity market decline or decrease in interest rates, which would cause an increase in expected claims and, therefore, reserves for GMDB and GMIB reinsurance business. The fair value of the majority of our positions in other derivative instruments is based on significant observable inputs including equity security and interest rate indices. Accordingly, these are classified within Level 2. 56 Table of Contents Where practical, fair values for short term debt, long term debt, and trust preferred securities are estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based principally on observable inputs including our incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being valued. As such, these instruments are classified within Level 2. Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, presents a break down of our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the year ended December 31, 2008. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 As discussed previously, on April 1, 2008, we acquired all outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries. As such, consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include the results of the acquired Combined Insurance business from April 1, 2008. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 13,080 $ 11,979 $ 12,030 9 % Net premiums earned 13,203 12,297 11,825 7 % 4 % Net investment income 2,062 1,918 1,601 7 % 20 % Net realized gains (losses) (1,633 ) (61 ) (98 ) NM (38)% Total revenues 13,632 14,154 13,328 (4)% 6 % Losses and loss expenses 7,603 7,351 7,070 3 % 4 % Future policy benefits 399 168 123 138 % 37 % Policy acquisition costs 2,135 1,771 1,715 21 % 3 % Administrative expenses 1,737 1,455 1,456 19 % Interest expense 230 175 176 31 % (1)% Other (income) expense (39 ) 81 (35 ) NM NM Total expenses 12,065 11,001 10,505 10 % 5 % Income before income tax 1,567 3,153 2,823 (50)% 12 % Income tax expense 370 575 522 (36)% 10 % Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 NM Net income $ 1,197 $ 2,578 $ 2,305 (54)% 12 % NMdenotes not meaningful Our net income was significantly impacted by net realized losses in 2008. These losses were primarily related to our fixed income and equity portfolios and are largely due to the widening credit spreads in our high quality corporate bond portfolio. Net realized losses were also related to changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. Refer to Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) and Investments. In addition, we recorded $567 million in pre tax net catastrophe related charges in 2008, compared with $159 million and $17 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. For 2008, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and floods in the U.S. Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2008, compared with 2007, having been increased by the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion to our total net premiums written in 2008. In 2008, our international operations benefited from growth in A&H business and favorable foreign exchange impact due to the strengthening of several major currencies, particularly the euro, relative to the U.S. dollar. The favorable foreign exchange impact began to reverse during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, ACE Private Risk Services, which we acquired in 2008, added $207 million to our 2008 net premiums written. Excluding the impact of the businesses we acquired in 2008, net premiums written declined two percent, reflecting the competitive conditions we have experienced across most lines of business and regions of operation over the past two years. 57 Table of Contents The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Property and all other $3,954 $3,811 $3,625 4 % 5 % Casualty 5,838 6,464 6,506 (10)% (1)% Subtotal 9,792 10,275 10,131 (5)% 1 % Personal accident (A&H) 2,949 1,654 1,420 78 % 16 % Life 462 368 274 26 % 34 % Net premiums earned $13,203 $12,297 $11,825 7 % 4 % 2008 % of total 2007% of total 2006 % of total Property and all other 30% 31% 31% Casualty 44% 53% 55% Subtotal 74% 84% 86% Personal accident (A&H) 22% 13% 12% Life 4% 3% 2% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. The increase in 2008 net premiums earned, compared with 2007, was primarily related to the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion. ACE Private Risk Services added $137 million to our 2008 net premiums earned. During 2008, our A&H business continued to report growth while our casualty lines, particularly in North America, declined. The increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily related to increased production at ACE USA and ACE International as well as our life operations, partially offset by decreased production at our Global Reinsurance segment. Net investment income increased over the last three years, primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life Insurance and Reinsurance, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio 60.6% 61.6% 61.2% Policy acquisition cost ratio 16.2% 14.5% 14.6% Administrative expense ratio 12.8% 11.8% 12.3% Combined ratio 89.6% 87.9% 88.1% 58 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 60.6 % 61.6 % 61.2 % Catastrophe losses (4.7)% (1.3)% (0.1)% Prior period development 6.8% 1.8% 0.1% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.7% 62.1% 61.2% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe charges on each of our operating segments attributable to 2008 catastrophe losses. This information is based on currently available information derived from industry assessments of exposure and claims information obtained from our clients and brokers. Actual losses from these events may vary materially from our estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, as well as the potential impact from post event circumstances, for example factors such as demand surge or judicial rulings. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance Consolidated Net loss Hurricane Gustav $ 50 $ 11 $ 6 $ 67 Hurricane Ike 206 48 174 428 Other 42 24 6 72 Total $ 298 $ 83 $ 186 $ 567 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed 16 8 (21) 3 Total before income tax 314 91 165 570 Income tax benefit (99) (20) (1) (120) Total after income tax $ 215 $ 71 $ 164 $ 450 Effective tax rate 32% 22% 1% 21% Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $814 million of net favorable prior period development in 2008. This compares with $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007, and $12 million of net favorable prior period development in 2006. The favorable prior period development in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements; refer to Prior Period Development. Overall, the loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted, has increased over the prior year, due to competitive market conditions, partially offset by the favorable impact of the increasing mix of A&H business, which experiences lower loss ratios relative to P&C business. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased significantly in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business, including the Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H. A&H business typically requires higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. For 2008, the increase in policy acquisition costs also included the impact of higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business, reflecting more profitable crop/hail results on final settlement of 2007 written policies. This generated a higher profit share commission which added approximately 0.4 percentage points to our 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio. Additionally, for 2008, we experienced higher costs due to the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services unit which typically generates a higher policy acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. Our administrative expenses increased in 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance and ACE Private Risk Services. For 2007, our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable, compared with 2006, as the increasing trend experienced due to the growth of A&H was offset by reduced ceding commission at ACE Tempest Re USA. Our administrative expense ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, due to the increase in net premiums 59 Table of Contents earned. Administrative expenses in 2006 include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 24 percent in 2008, compared with 18 percent in 2007 and 2006. For 2008, our effective tax rate was adversely impacted by large realized losses on investments and derivatives and also due to a higher proportion of our net income being generated in higher tax paying jurisdictions. We decreased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $39 million in 2007 due primarily to a change in tax regulation. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $814 million on net unpaid losses and loss expenses during the year ended December 31, 2008, was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment by claim tail attribute are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability. Short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2008 Insurance North American $ (131 ) $ (220 ) $ (351 ) 2.4% Insurance Overseas General (131 ) (173 ) (304 ) 4.7% Global Reinsurance (17 ) (142 ) (159 ) 5.9% Total $ (279 ) $ (535 ) $ (814 ) 3.5% 2007 Insurance North American** $ (13 ) $ 22 $ 9 0.1% Insurance Overseas General (53 ) (139 ) (192 ) 3.2% Global Reinsurance*** 8 (42 ) (34 ) 1.3% Total $ (58 ) $ (159 ) $ (217 ) 1.0% * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. ** Insurance North American: $52 million favorable development on workers compensation was reclassified from short tail to long tail. *** Global Reinsurance: $5 million favorable development on workers compensation was reclassified from short tail to long tail. Insurance North American Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, representing 2.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business, including: Adverse development of $15 million in our national accounts workers compensation portfolios comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $47 million arising on accident year 2007, due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible and excess product lines. We evaluate this exposure on an annual basis, after the accident year has closed, allowing for the late reporting or identification of significant losses and for an initial assessment of the accident year. Our review in 2008 of potential 2007 events, coupled with our initial assessment of the accident year has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims. Second, adverse development of $62 million relating to 2003 and prior accident years. This development was the direct result of reported loss activity greater than expected in our prior review. During the past year, a targeted open case reserve review was conducted by our claims staff which resulted in a number of material case reserve increases that were not anticipated in our prior estimates of ultimate loss; Favorable development of $32 million in our national accounts commercial auto and general liability product lines comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $19 million was mainly from accident years 2003 60 Table of Contents and prior for exposures written on an excess basis. The combination of continued lower than expected reported incurred loss activity for the 2001 2003 accident years as well as increased weighting on loss development reserving methods, as these years mature, has driven the majority of the improvement in projected ultimate losses. Second, favorable development of $13 million relating to the 1999 2002 accident years primarily on a block of runoff programs comprising general liability, auto liability, and workers compensation product coverages. This favorable development was a result of lower than expected paid and case incurred development observed in the most recent reserve review which resulted in lower selected ultimate loss projections; Adverse development of $10 million related to higher than expected loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity on reported claims in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios, primarily affecting the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Recent case activity on these portfolios through calendar year 2007 and into 2008 was higher than expectations and we adjusted our estimates of ultimate loss accordingly. Prior estimates relied heavily on industry benchmarks including average severity trends; Adverse development of $29 million on a portfolio of primary casualty business written by ACE Westchester impacting the 2002 2004 accident years. This adverse activity was a function of higher than expected loss and allocated expenses on business that has a heavy concentration of exposure to commercial contractors. In the past few quarters, both paid and incurred development patterns for the tail period beyond 60 months have developed worse than industry benchmark factors which formed the basis for our projections in prior analyses; Favorable development of $19 million on excess casualty and umbrella business in our ACE Westchester unit primarily impacting accident years 2002 2004. This favorable activity was a function of a shift in weighting from expected loss based reserving methods to direct projections of ultimate losses as this long tailed exposure begins to mature for these accident periods; Adverse development of $10 million on an ACE Bermuda professional lines claim in accident year 2001 as a result of a review in 2008, that identified significant erosion below our attachment; Adverse development of $29 million on our portfolio of Defense Base Acts workers compensation coverage (covers employees of U.S. government contractors overseas). We experienced higher than expected incurred loss development since the last reserve study concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years. The majority of the development was related to increases in case reserves on known claims for these accident years, and recorded in 2008. These increases were judged to be more than claim acceleration and resulted in significant increases in the 2006 and 2007 accident year ultimate loss projections given the immaturity of the impacted accident years and long tail nature of the portfolio; Favorable development of $46 million on our medical risk business, primarily our hospital professional liability portfolio for the 2004 and 2005 accident years. Coverage is provided on a claims made basis and both paid and case incurred loss activity since our last review have been favorable relative to expected. As these accident periods have matured, we have gradually increased the weight applied to experience based methods, including the Bornhuetter Ferguson method, and placing less weight on our initial expected loss ratio method; Favorable development of $34 million in our management and professional liability product lines. This development was the net result of favorable development totaling $117 million associated with the 2005 and prior accident years and adverse development of $81 million with respect to the 2007 accident year. The favorable prior period development was a function of a review of all open claims in our retail management liability operation and a reassessment of the potential ultimate exposure on these claims. This reassessment of exposure and the maturation of these accident periods supported increasing the weight given to experience based loss projections. The adverse development relating to the 2007 accident year is due solely to a claim by claim review of exposures impacted by the ongoing credit crisis including but not limited to sub prime mortgages. These claim file reviews occurred during the 2008 calendar year as facts and circumstances surrounding these exposures continued to emerge and develop; Favorable development of $51 million on our long tail exposures in our Canadian P&C operations, principally arising in the 2005 accident year on excess casualty, umbrella, and D&O product lines. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since our prior analysis. In addition, we have increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident years mature; Favorable development of $68 million for accident years 2003 2006 due to the expiration of a large, multi year insurance contract written in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit. This contract included a significant per occurrence limit excess of a high attachment point. Coverage was provided on an integrated occurrence basis requiring notice of an event during the policy period. We completed a detailed claims audit in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to an adjustment to the booked loss and loss expense reserves; 61 Table of Contents Adverse development of $51 million on runoff casualty reserves, including asbestos and environmental, in the Brandywine and ACE Westchester business units following completion of our internal ground up review of asbestos and environmental liabilities for the most significant policyholders identified to date. This adverse development arose from several sources, the principal one of which was as a result of increased defense costs in litigating traditional tort defenses on asbestos cases; and Favorable development of $16 million relating to the completion of account reconciliations that identified duplicate loss processing, over processed coinsurance, and unregistered reinsurance recoveries. Net favorable development of $220 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $116 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business relating to the recording of the 2007 crop year bordereau received in 2008; Adverse development totaling $33 million relating to increases in our estimates of losses for the 2005 hurricanes primarily in ACE Westchester property ($23 million) and ACE Financial Services International (ACE FSI) ($10 million). The ACE Westchester development was due primarily to settlement on several excess policies above our prior case reserves, resulting in higher estimates of ultimate loss. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues continue to be present and may have a further adverse impact on our financial results, which may be material. The ACE FSI development was due to adverse development on a retrocessional program following a review of the programs claim circumstances; Favorable development of $13 million relating to lower than expected paid claims for the 2007 accident year on a run off portfolio of warranty business, mostly automobile extended warranty contracts. The change was driven primarily by recognition of recent paid claim experience, as a percentage of earned premiums, which has been lower than the historical averages used in our prior analyses; Favorable development of $27 million on ACE Westchester property and inland marine businesses. This change was due primarily to the fact that the reported incurred and paid loss activity for the 2007 accident year non catastrophe losses proved lower than anticipated based on historical loss development patterns; Favorable settlements of $15 million on ACE Bermuda property claims mainly in accident years 2005 2007 as a result of favorable claims experience. A review of all open claims was performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, which concluded that actual experience to date had been more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserves for the open claims; Favorable development of $9 million mainly in accident years 2006 and 2007 for ACE Bermuda political risk. This line is subject to review twice a year; during the fourth quarter 2008 review, we reflected the limited paid and case incurred loss activity relative to our assumptions and known events by releasing $9 million of IBNR; Favorable development of $29 million on ACE USAs property business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year and a portfolio of diverse global exposures written on an excess basis. Reported loss activity during the 2008 year, has been lower than anticipated in our prior review; Favorable development of $6 million in our Canadian P&C operations short tail lines concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years, covering multiple product lines including property and auto physical damage. Reported loss activity on these product lines was lower than expected; Favorable development of $6 million on the ACE USA commercial marine product lines primarily with respect to the 2002 2005 accident years. The favorable development was concentrated in the marine hull product line where loss development and or emergence during the 2008 calendar year were lower than expected; and Favorable development of $14 million on the ACE USA recreational marine business primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Loss emergence and or development during the 2008 calendar year were lower than historical averages used in our prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $13 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $21 million due to an adjustment made in 2006 relating to IBNR reserves on commuted ceded reinsurance contracts, identified and resolved during 2007; Adverse development of $33 million on two related specialty claims from a runoff financial guaranty program affecting accident year 2000 due to adverse judicial rulings rendered during the 2007 calendar year; Adverse development on our estimates of future allocated claims expense on two separate portfolios of workers compensation insurance totaling $28 million. This change in estimate affected our national accounts workers compensation 62 Table of Contents business (principally accident years 2002 2004) and a runoff portfolio of workers compensation servicing carrier business (covering accident years 1996 and prior). For the national accounts business, the change was principally in our high deductible portfolio. Based on analyses completed during 2007, we have increased our tail factor for allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) as well as our ratios of ALAE to loss used in our projection methodologies. Small movements in these assumptions produce a leveraged increase in the loss estimates across a number of accident years; Adverse development on our estimates of ultimate loss on a collection of runoff professional liability and medical programs totaling $20 million. This adverse development was the direct result of a review of all open claims that was completed during 2007. This claims review identified a number of cases where adverse change in facts and circumstances led to a significant deviation from our estimates of ultimate claim value; Favorable development of $52 million in our workers compensation business due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents for the 2006 accident year. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible line of business. We evaluate this exposure annually after the accident year has closed allowing for the late identification of significant losses. Our review in 2007 of potential 2006 accident year losses has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims; Favorable development in our estimate of ultimate loss and ALAE of $18 million in our surety business. This improvement was heavily concentrated in the 2005 and 2006 accident years. In the 2007 calendar year, the level of late reported claims and development on known claims for this portfolio was significantly below historical levels for this line of business resulting in a reduction in all loss projection methods; Favorable development on our national accounts casualty business, primarily general liability, of $21 million for the 2002 2004 accident years. Development on these portfolios had been favorable relative to the original assumptions used to price the products. Actual paid and incurred loss activity in 2007 was lower than assumed in our prior projections and we have modified our estimates accordingly; and Favorable development of $25 million on our foreign casualty portfolio for the 2004 and prior accident years. This was partly due to an adjustment for a reserve established in 2006 for a single large claim, but also due to low levels of reported and paid loss activity on our foreign captive business. This particular line has net exposure on a per occurrence basis excess of high deductibles/self insured retentions and an aggregate basis excess of an aggregate attachment point. Expected loss emergence patterns used in our 2006 review projected higher loss development for the 2004 and prior accident years than emerged during 2007 prompting a reduction in our projection of ultimate losses. Net adverse development of $22 million on short tail business including: Adverse development totaling $115 million relating to increases in our estimates of loss for the 2005 storms primarily in our ACE Westchester operation but also some modest development in our offshore energy business. This development was due primarily to a relatively small number of losses on excess policies with large exposed limits. These losses reached settlement during 2007 for amounts in excess of our case reserves prompting adjustments to our projections of ultimate losses. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes had involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues were present in 2007; Favorable development of $33 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business. This was the direct effect of recording the final settlement of the 2006 pool year from the bordereau received during the 2007 calendar year; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate losses for first party lines including property and auto physical damage in our ACE Canada operations totaling $18 million, affecting primarily the 2006 accident year. Incurred loss development during calendar year 2007 on the 2006 accident year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned greater credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $19 million on our Canadian A&H portfolio. We have limited historical experience for this product line. Losses were originally recorded using an expected loss ratio method. Actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 has proven to be more favorable than our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; and Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $28 million on short tail, non catastrophe losses in our ACE Westchester property and inland marine product lines. Attritional incurred loss activity on the 2005 and 2006 accident years in the 2007 calendar year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Insurance North American experienced adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. 63 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, representing 4.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development for 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business including: Favorable development of $159 million from accident years 2005 and prior in ACE Internationals financial lines and casualty (primary and excess) portfolios. Most of the reduction was in accident years 2002 2005 on financial lines, primary casualty, and supported casualty excess. Additional excess releases were made in accident years 2001 and prior. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since the prior years analysis. In addition, we have increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident periods mature; Favorable development of $11 million in ACE Global Market financial lines. This was across a number of accident years. The decrease was driven by a reliance on experience based methods which reflected favorable development in 2008 in the quicker developing financial lines of crime and professional indemnity; and Adverse development of $39 million on accident years 2006 2007, mainly in ACE International casualty portfolios following heavier than expected loss emergence. Actual major claim notices received in 2008 caused loss estimates on U.K. excess casualty and Continental Europe financial lines to be increased. Loss projections for the Continental Europe casualty portfolios also increased following adverse attritional claim activity (i.e. excluding catastrophes and large losses) in one country and a large loss in another country. Net favorable development of $173 million on short tail business including: Net favorable development of $113 million in ACE International property lines. This activity was focused mainly in accident years 2003 2007 and the U.K. and Continental Europe regions. The releases in accident years 2003 2005 were partially due to case specific reserve reductions driven by new information obtained in 2008. Accident years 2006 2007 were driven by favorable emergence relative to the expected development pattern as of the prior year end and reliance on experience based methods for this short tailed line; Favorable development on ACE International accident and health of $44 million. This was mainly from the U.K., Continental Europe, and Latin America regions in accident years 2003 2007. The decrease was driven by a combination of favorable development in 2008 across all segments of this book and greater reliance on experience based methods as the accident years mature; Favorable development of $30 million for the ACE International marine book. This was mainly in accident years 2005 2007 and in the Continental Europe and Latin America regions. Given the short tailed nature of this line, experience based methods are the primary basis of carried reserves. Given the favorable loss emergence in 2008, reserves were reduced to reflect this experience; and Adverse development of $14 million due to several major ACE Global Markets energy losses primarily for accident years 2006 and 2007. First notice for one of these losses was received in 2008, while the remainder of the increase arose on previously notified claims that were subject in 2008 to a detailed claims review of individual event circumstances and their associated coverages. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development for 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $53 million on long tail lines of business, including: Net favorable development of $33 million in the 2006 and prior accident years for Insurance Overseas General long tail lines, primarily casualty and financial lines. This favorable prior period development was in response to our annual review of long tail lines completed during 2007. There was $23 million of net favorable development for Insurance Overseas General on the 2003 2005 accident years driven by reductions in loss development method indications and greater credibility being assigned to Bornhuetter Ferguson projections versus expected loss ratio methods. This shift in credibility weighting between reserving methods is common practice and allows for greater recognition of actual loss emergence as accident years mature; Net favorable development of $20 million as a result of an update of the detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures in Insurance Overseas General which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior and $45 million in accident year 2006, and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005 ; and 64 Table of Contents Adverse development of $11 million in ACE Global Markets long tail professional lines, primarily in accident years 1999 2003. This adverse prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on three accounts based on updated information received during the course of claim settlement in 2007. Net favorable development of $139 million on short tail lines of business including: Favorable development of $84 million on short tail property and fire lines primarily in the 2006 accident year in ACE International. The favorable development during the past year was due in large part to shifting credibility away from Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and relying more heavily on loss development patterns as case incurred loss became a more accurate predictor of ultimate loss. This shift in credibility tended to reduce indicated ultimate losses since, with hindsight, our initial expected loss ratios have proven to be conservative; Favorable development of $13 million on 2005 hurricane losses in ACE Global Markets. This adjustment was due to the fact that after 24 months of development, it was concluded that there would be no new reported claims; Favorable development of $30 million on specialty A&H primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in ACE Europe. This favorable prior period development followed the completion of the regular reserve review and was driven by better than expected loss experience relative to prior reserving assumptions. The favorable experience arose across several countries with no particular underlying claim or loss emergence trend identifiable; Favorable development of $28 million on specialty marine, primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in both ACE International and ACE Global Markets. This favorable prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on several large claims based on updated information received during claim settlement in 2007; and Adverse development of $9 million on specialty consumer lines, primarily in accident year 2006. This adverse development was primarily driven by further deterioration of ACE Internationals homeowners warranty business in Norway. The indicated ultimate loss was revised upwards in 2007 in response to several key claim metrics underlying the reserve estimate: number of reopened claims, loss adjustment expenses, and frequency and severity of late reported claims. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, representing 5.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. The net prior period development recorded in 2008 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Net favorable development of $17 million on long tail business across a number of lines and years including: Net favorable prior period development of $30 million principally in treaty years 2003 and 2004 in ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, workers compensation catastrophe, and medical malpractice), offset by $16 million adverse development in treaty year 2007. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods away from expectations as these treaty periods mature, while the 2007 treaty year development resulted from adverse incurred losses due to large loss development in casualty lines of business. Net favorable development of $142 million on short tail business across a number of lines and years including: Favorable prior period development of $43 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior in ACE Tempest Re USA across several portfolios. The development arose principally on property and the credit & surety line following completion of reserve reviews in 2008. The property portfolio benefited from better than expected claim emergence, while the release in the credit & surety line followed a detailed review of claims and associated recoveries, together with favorable loss emergence; Favorable prior period development of $28 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior in ACE Tempest Re Europe across several portfolios, principally property, marine and energy. This included $16 million property release on U.S. and international property exposures and reflected lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Net favorable development of $71 million primarily on accident years 2002 2006 in ACE Tempest Re Bermudas property catastrophe portfolio for claims from prior catastrophe events. The release followed a detailed review during the 2008 year of each event and each cedants coverage terms and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development recorded in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to 65 Table of Contents long tail lines of business for ACE Tempest Re USA of $8 million mainly as a result of higher than expected claims reported in 2007 primarily for treaty years 2000 2005 for casualty and workers compensation business on several accounts. Favorable movements of $42 million largely related to claim closings on short tail property and other short tail lines of business primarily from treaty years 2005 and prior were recorded in 2007. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 The discussions that follow include tables, which show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. As discussed previously, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries on April 1, 2008. As such, segment operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include the results of the acquired Combined Insurance business. The Combined Insurance results are included in our Insurance Overseas General segment or Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment according to the nature of the business written. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment and the results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). In addition, beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2008, Insurance North American includes ACE Private Risk Services, an underwriting unit we acquired in 2008 that provides personal lines coverages (such as homeowners and automobile) for high net worth clients. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 5,636 $ 5,833 $ 5,940 (3)% (2)% Net premiums earned 5,679 6,007 5,719 (5)% 5 % Losses and loss expenses 4,080 4,269 4,026 (4)% 6 % Policy acquisition costs 562 515 530 9 % (3)% Administrative expenses 536 530 502 1 % 6 % Underwriting income 501 693 661 (28)% 5% Net investment income 1,095 1,034 876 6 % 18 % Net realized gains (losses) (709 ) 125 (83 ) NM NM Interest expense 1 NM Other (income) expense 7 11 (2 ) (36)% NM Income tax expense 315 468 352 (33)% 33 % Net income $ 564 $ 1,373 $ 1,104 (59)% 24% Loss and loss expense ratio 71.8% 71.1% 70.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.9% 8.6% 9.2% Administrative expense ratio 9.4% 8.8% 8.8% Combined ratio 91.1% 88.5% 88.4% 66 Table of Contents Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased in 2008, primarily due to lower new and renewal business for ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division. Net premiums written in 2008 include ACE Private Risk Services which added $207 million to this segments net premiums written. ACE Private Risk Services was acquired in December 2007. Excluding ACE Private Risk Services, Insurance North Americans net premiums written decreased seven percent in 2008, compared with 2007. ACE USA experienced competitive conditions across many of its units in 2008 which resulted in reductions in net premiums written in its middle market and large risk workers compensation businesses, its property business, and its specialty businesses including aerospace, marine, medical facilities, and surety. In addition to these reductions for ACE USA, the year ended December 31, 2007, included a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. These ACE USA decreases were partially offset by increased writings in professional liability, foreign casualty, and A&H lines of business. For ACE Westchester, net premiums written decreased in 2008 due to competitive conditions throughout 2008 that resulted in lower premium volume in our casualty, inland marine, and property units. For 2008, higher crop premium partially offset these reductions as there were generally higher commodity prices during 2008 compared with 2007. ACE Bermuda experienced decreases in its excess liability business primarily due to lower production and retention as we declined or ceded business submitted to us with unfavorable rates relative to risk exposure. This trend was partially offset by growth in ACE Bermudas political risk business. The decrease in Insurance North Americans net premiums written in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to a decrease in new and renewal business at ACE Westchester, which experienced very competitive conditions on P&C lines. ACE Westchester also reported a decrease in retention of gross premiums written, primarily due to changes in business mix. ACE USA reported modest growth in 2007, driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and the large assumed portfolio transfer. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,576 $ 1,486 $ 1,296 6 % 15 % Casualty 3,857 4,298 4,228 (10)% 2 % Personal accident (A&H) 246 223 195 10 % 14 % Net premiums earned $ 5,679 $ 6,007 $ 5,719 (5)% 5 % Entity/Division ACE USA $ 3,858 $ 4,196 $ 3,795 (8)% 11 % ACE Westchester 1,324 1,420 1,465 (7)% (3)% ACE Bermuda 359 391 459 (8)% (15)% ACE Private Risk Services 138 NM Net premiums earned $ 5,679 $ 6,007 $ 5,719 (6)% 5 % 2008% of total 2007 % of total 2006% of total Line of Business Property and all other 28% 25% 23% Casualty 68% 71% 74% Personal accident (A&H) 4% 4% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Entity/Division ACE USA 68% 70% 66% ACE Westchester 24% 24% 26% ACE Bermuda 6% 6% 8% ACE Private Risk Services 2% 0% 0% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% 67 Table of Contents ACE USAs reduction in net premiums earned in 2008 was primarily driven by the decrease in financial solutions business, as the prior year included approximately $170 million related to a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program. In addition, net premiums earned were lower in 2008 due to decreases in middle market workers compensation business, large risk accounts and property, reflecting competitive market conditions and declining business that did not meet our selective underwriting standards. These reductions were partially offset by growth in ACE USAs professional liability, specialty casualty, A&H, inland marine and foreign casualty units. ACE USAs increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily driven by assumed loss portfolio business, as well as new business in the energy unit and growth in specialty casualty lines. ACE USAs curtailment of middle market workers compensation business partially offset these increases. ACE Westchesters reduction in net premiums earned over the last two years was primarily due to declines in casualty and inland marine business, which resulted from competitive market conditions. This trend was partially offset by crop business growth, which benefited from generally higher commodity prices for most of 2008 and in 2007. ACE Bermudas reduction in net premiums earned in 2008, compared with 2007, was a result of lower production, and the decrease in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to the curtailment of financial solutions business. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2008 and 2007. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 71.8 % 71.1 % 70.4 % Catastrophe losses (5.4)% (0.3)% % Prior period development 6.2 % (0.2)% (1.2) % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 72.6 % 70.6 % 69.2 % Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $298 million in 2008, compared with $16 million in 2007, and $nil in 2006. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $9 million and $65 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio as adjusted in 2008, compared with 2007, was primarily due to changes in business mix, specifically higher premiums from the crop business, which carries a relatively high current accident year loss ratio. In addition, the 2008 loss and loss expense ratio reflects increased loss costs, including higher incurred losses for non catastrophe events that affected the property, marine and energy business units. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, due in part to the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services in 2008, which generates a higher acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. The increase also reflects higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business, as 2008 included more profitable results on the first quarter final settlement than in 2007, as well as increased crop/hail production for 2008. The first quarter settlement in 2008 generated a higher profit share commission, which added approximately 0.8 percentage points to Insurance North Americans 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio. In addition, higher assumed loss portfolio transfer business in 2007, which incurred low acquisition costs as is typical for these types of transactions, reduced the 2007 policy acquisition ratio by 0.2 percentage points. These increases in the 2008 policy acquisition cost ratio were partially offset by improvements at ACE Bermuda, primarily due to increased ceding commissions. The decrease in Insurance North Americans 2007 policy acquisition cost ratio, compared with 2006, was primarily related to reductions in the policy acquisition cost ratio at ACE USA and ACE Westchester. For ACE USA, the reduction reflected higher ceding commissions as well as lower premium taxes due to reassessment of obligations for premium based assessments and guaranty funds. For ACE Westchester, the reduction in the policy acquisition cost ratio was primarily due to lower profit share commissions on crop business in 2007, compared with 2006. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, reflecting the inclusion of ACE Private Risk Services unit, which generates higher administrative expense ratios than our commercial P&C business, and the reduction in net premiums earned. The administrative expense ratio was stable in 2007, compared with 2006. 68 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous insurance operations; the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. This segment has four regions of operations; ACE European Group, which is comprised of ACE Europe and ACE Global Markets branded business, ACE Asia Pacific, ACE Far East, and ACE Latin America. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in Europe and Asia Pacific. 2008 2007 2006 % change 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 5,332 $ 4,568 $ 4,266 17 % 7 % Net premiums earned 5,337 4,623 4,321 15 % 7 % Losses and loss expenses 2,679 2,420 2,259 11 % 7 % Future policy benefits 12 NM Policy acquisition costs 1,193 963 856 24 % 13 % Administrative expenses 793 669 609 19 % 10 % Underwriting income 660 571 597 16 % (4)% Net investment income 521 450 370 16 % 22 % Net realized gains (losses) (316) (69) (16) NM NM Other (income) expense (11) (20) 10 (45)% NM Income tax expense 100 183 206 (45)% (11)% Net income $ 776 $ 789 $ 735 (2)% 7 % Loss and loss expense ratio 50.4% 52.4% 52.3% Policy acquisition cost ratio 22.4% 20.8% 19.8% Administrative expense ratio 14.8% 14.5% 14.1% Combined ratio 87.6% 87.7% 86.2% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance, which added $370 million of net premiums written, favorable foreign exchange impact, and growth in A&H business. During 2008, ACE International benefited from the strengthening of the euro, relative to the U.S. dollar (refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). The favorable foreign exchange impact began to reverse during the fourth quarter of 2008. ACE International continues to report growth in its A&H business, particularly in Latin America and Asia Pacific. On the P&C side, ACE International reported growth in emerging markets in Europe and the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Latin America, offset by declines in the U.K. ACE Global Markets reported lower production in most product lines, particularly property, aviation, marine, and energy, primarily due to competitive conditions. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE Internationals results as both the euro and the pound sterling strengthened significantly relative to the U.S. dollar during 2007. 69 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,855 $ 1,697 $ 1,617 9 % 5 % Casualty 1,487 1,495 1,479 (1)% 1 % Personal accident (A&H) 1,995 1,431 1,225 39 % 17 % Net premiums earned $ 5,337 $ 4,623 $ 4,321 15 % 7 % Entity/Division ACE Europe $ 2,132 $ 1,999 $ 1,819 7 % 10 % ACE Asia Pacific 708 631 590 12 % 7 % ACE Far East 425 365 361 16 % 1 % ACE Latin America 778 633 521 23 % 21 % ACE International 4,043 3,628 3,291 11 % 10% ACE Global Markets 923 995 1,030 (7)% (3)% Combined Insurance International 371 NM Net premiums earned $ 5,337 $ 4,623 $ 4,321 15 % 7% 2008 % of total 2007 % of total 2006 % of total Line of Business Property and all other 35% 37% 37% Casualty 28% 32% 34% Personal accident (A&H) 37% 31% 29% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Entity/Division ACE Europe 40% 43% 42% ACE Asia Pacific 13% 14% 14% ACE Far East 8% 8% 8% ACE Latin America 15% 14% 12% ACE International 76% 79% 76% ACE Global Markets 17% 21% 24% Combined Insurance International 7% 0% 0% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the added premiums from Combined Insurance, growth in A&H production, and favorable foreign exchange impact. Combined Insurance added $371 million to this segments 2008 net premiums earned. ACE International continues to benefit from growth in A&H business, particularly in ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America. For several years, these regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H customer base. Our A&H business is mainly personal accident with some supplemental medical cover, typically paying fixed amounts for claims, and is therefore, insulated from rising health care costs. Following decreased production over the last several quarters, ACE Global Markets reported decreases in net premiums earned. Insurance Overseas General reported an increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE International business. 70 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned, excluding Combined Insurance, for the periods indicated. 2008 2007 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 6.2% 0.6% Foreign exchange effect 2.4% 6.5% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 8.6% 7.1% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 5.1% 0.7% Foreign exchange effect 2.3% 6.3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.4% 7.0% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.4 % 52.4 % 52.3 % Catastrophe losses (1.6)% (2.1)% (0.1)% Prior period development 5.7 % 4.1 % 1.7 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.5 % 54.4 % 53.9 % Net catastrophe losses for 2008 were $83 million, compared with $94 million and $3 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2008, were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $304 million, $192 million, and $72 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Our loss and loss expense ratio will tend to decrease on a comparative basis as the proportion of A&H business to P&C business grows. A&H business typically generates a much lower loss and loss expense ratio (and a higher policy acquisition cost ratio) than traditional P&C business. The impact of both the growth in A&H business relative to P&C and the addition of Combined Insurance resulted in a 1.0 percentage point decrease in the adjusted loss ratios for 2008. After considering this impact, the adjusted loss ratio for 2008, increased due to deteriorating market conditions. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business and the impact of the recently acquired Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H business. A&H business typically attracts higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. In addition, for 2008, reduced ceding commissions had the effect of increasing policy acquisition costs. In 2007, the increasing impact on policy acquisition costs from A&H growth was partially offset by increased ceding commissions at ACE Global Markets. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio has been relatively stable over the last three years primarily due to expense management as it grows its businesses. For 2008, administrative expenses increased primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange impact and the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, ACE International reported increased costs for 2007, associated with its entrance into emerging markets, specifically Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and in support of A&H growth at Asia Pacific. 71 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverages to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs.2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Net premiums written $ 914 $ 1,197 $ 1,550 (24)% (23)% Net premiums earned 1,017 1,299 1,511 (22)% (14)% Losses and loss expenses 524 664 784 (21)% (15)% Policy acquisition costs 192 248 303 (23)% (18)% Administrative expenses 56 64 62 (13)% 3 % Underwriting income 245 323 362 (24)% (11)% Net investment income 309 274 221 13 % 24% Net realized gains (losses) (163) 21 10 NM 110% Other (income) expense 2 4 8 (50)% (50)% Income tax expense 30 32 38 (6) % (16)% Net income $ 359 $ 582 $ 547 (38)% 6 % Loss and loss expense ratio 51.5% 51.1% 51.8% Policy acquisition cost ratio 18.8% 19.1% 20.1% Administrative expense ratio 5.5% 4.9% 4.1% Combined ratio 75.8% 75.1% 76.0% Global Reinsurance reported intense competition across the majority of its regions of operations over the last two years. This has resulted in significant declines in production, as clients increased their own risk retention and we adhered to our strict underwriting standards which meant not renewing several large policies. The following tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs.2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Line of Business Property and all other $ 229 $ 285 $ 354 (20 )% (19 )% Casualty 494 671 799 (26 )% (16 )% Property catastrophe 294 343 358 (14 )% (4 )% Net premiums earned $ 1,017 $ 1,299 $ 1,511 (22 )% (14 )% Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda $ 299 $ 356 $ 367 (16) % (3 )% ACE Tempest Re USA 490 693 872 (29) % (21 )% ACE Tempest Re Europe 212 241 272 (12) % (11 )% ACE Tempest Re Canada 16 9 78 % NM Net premiums earned $ 1,017 $ 1,299 $ 1,511 (22) % (14 )% 72 Table of Contents 2008% of total 2007 % of total 2006% of total Line of Business Property and all other 22 % 22 % 23 % Casualty 49 % 52 % 52 % Property catastrophe 29 % 26 % 25 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 29 % 27 % 24 % ACE Tempest Re USA 48 % 53 % 58 % ACE Tempest Re Europe 21 % 19 % 18 % ACE Tempest Re Canada 2 % 1 % % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to lower production. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported a decline in net premiums earned due to non renewed business, offset by $21 million of inward reinstatement premiums in connection with Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe reported declines in net premiums earned, primarily due to competitive conditions over the last two years, which reduced production. The decrease in net premiums earned in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily due to lower production at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, and ACE Tempest Re Europe. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. 2008 2007 2006 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.5 % 51.1 % 51.8 % Catastrophe losses (17.6)% (3.7)% (0.9)% Prior period development 16.0 % 2.6 % 0.4 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 49.9% 50.0% 51.3% Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $186 million in 2008, mainly due to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $49 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $34 million and $5 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio decreased during 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the increase in inward catastrophe related reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. We pay little or no commission on reinstatement premiums written and earned. The decrease in the policy acquisition cost ratio in 2007, compared with 2006, was primarily due to changes in business mix and lower ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA. Administrative expenses decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to lower staffing costs. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned, partially offset by reduced staffing costs. Life Insurance and Reinsurance The Life Insurance and Reinsurance segment includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), ACE International Life, and the North American A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. ACE Life Re comprises two operations. The first provides reinsurance to primary life insurers for variable annuity guarantees and the other is a traditional life reinsurance company. ACE Life Re is currently not quoting on new opportunities in the variable annuity reinsurance marketplace. ACE International Life develops direct insurance opportunities in emerging markets, including Egypt, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, the United Arab Emirates, and in China through a partially owned company. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products that are targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S. and Canada. Results for 2008 include Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008, the date of acquisition. We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. 73 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Net premiums written $ 1,198 $ 381 $ 274 Net premiums earned 1,170 368 274 Losses and loss expenses 320 Future policy benefits 387 168 123 Policy acquisition costs 188 45 26 Administrative expenses 199 50 35 Net investment income 142 55 42 Life underwriting income 218 160 132 Net realized gains (losses) (532 ) (164 ) (36 ) Other (income) expense 12 1 Income tax expense (benefit) 30 (8 ) (6 ) Net income (loss) $ (356 ) $ 3 $ 102 The following table provides a line of business breakdown of Life Insurance and Reinsurances underwriting income for the periods indicated. % change 2008 2007 2006 2008vs. 2007 2007vs. 2006 (in millions U.S. dollars) Life underwriting income ACE Life Re $ 105 $ 181 $ 153 (42 )% 18 % ACE International Life (28 ) (21 ) (21 ) 33 % Combined Insurance 141 NM Life underwriting income $ 218 $ 160 $ 132 36 % 21 % Life underwriting income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the operating results of the acquired Combined Insurance business. ACE Life Res (Life reinsurance) underwriting income decreased in 2008 due to increased benefit reserves primarily due to poor worldwide equity market performance. Benefit reserves reflect the expected value of future claims on earned premium exposures and fluctuate with movements in equity indices, interest rates and policyholder behavior. Net realized gains (losses), which we exclude from life underwriting income, relate primarily to changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008 which were caused by adverse financial market conditions, primarily poor equity market performance. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates and Fair Value Measurements for more information. ACE International Life generated an underwriting loss in 2008 as we continue to incur start up costs in several countries as we develop the business. The above table reflects Combined Insurance business beginning April 1, 2008, the date of acquisition. From April 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008, net premiums earned from Combined Insurance were $763 million. Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities $ 1,972 $ 1,773 $ 1,463 Short term investments 109 130 119 Equity securities 93 68 57 Other (20 ) 25 26 Gross investment income 2,154 1,996 1,665 Investment expenses (92 ) (78 ) (64 ) Net investment income $ 2,062 $ 1,918 $ 1,601 74 Table of Contents Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income includes accretion from the new cost basis of securities for which other than temporary impairments have been recorded due to interest rate spreads. Accretion does not occur for securities where an other than temporary impairment was attributable to issuer specific credit events. Net investment income increased eight percent in 2008, compared with 2007, and 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 6.4 percent at December 31, 2008, compared with 5.3 percent and 5.4 percent at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in Other investment income are changes in fair value of trading securities included within rabbi trusts maintained for compensation plans. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Average invested assets $ 41,502 $ 38,798 $ 34,007 Net investment income $ 2,062 $ 1,918 $ 1,601 Return on average invested assets 5.0% 4.9% 4.7% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio with the concurrence of ACE management when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, securities sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and, thus, the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on securities sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would, therefore, tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An environment where interest rates are increasing would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, there is a risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are, thus, unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). We review our investments for other than temporary impairment based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in a loss position, the magnitude of the loss position, and whether the security is rated below an investment grade level; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience, and other issuer specific developments; 75 Table of Contents our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period; and equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months were generally impaired. Given current market conditions, and in light of recent general guidance from the SEC and the FASB regarding the application of existing guidance during stressed market conditions, beginning in the third quarter of 2008 we have qualitatively evaluated our application of the parameters under which we consider a decline in value to be other than temporary. Similar to prior quarters, we evaluated investments in our portfolio where cost exceeded fair value and made certain judgments as to our ability to recover our cost. Our analysis, beginning with the third quarter of 2008, required us to consider carefully the duration and severity of decline and the root causes thereof. Specifically, we further evaluated during the quarter whether declines were related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions, and therefore more likely to be temporary, or were instead related to specific credit events or issuer performance, and therefore more likely to be other than temporarily impaired. Using this refined evaluation process resulted in a lower dollar value of investments in an unrealized loss position being deemed other than temporarily impaired in comparison to our previous evaluation process. We believe the underlying credit quality of the portfolio supports the use of our modified approach. Refer to Note 4 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, which includes a table that summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a write down to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis. The new cost basis of an impaired security is not adjusted for subsequent increases in estimated fair value. For fixed maturity investments, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment income, and included in income in future periods based upon the amount and timing of expected future cash flows of the security. The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (846 ) $ (2,091 ) $ (2,937 ) $ (98 ) $ 48 $ (50 ) Equity securities (349 ) (363 ) (712 ) 162 (122 ) 40 Other (55 ) (313 ) (368 ) 37 73 110 Subtotal investments (1,250 ) (2,767 ) (4,017 ) 101 1 100 Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (3 ) (3 ) (19 ) (19 ) Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (650 ) (650 ) (185 ) (185 ) S&P put option 164 164 22 22 Fair value adjustment on other derivatives 83 83 16 16 Subtotal derivatives (406 ) (406 ) (166 ) (166 ) Foreign exchange gains 23 23 4 4 Total gains (losses) $ (1,633 ) $ (2,767 ) $ (4,400 ) $ (61 ) $ (1 ) $ (62 ) In 2008, we recorded net realized losses on derivative transactions. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. 76 Table of Contents Our net realized losses in 2008 included write downs of $1.1 billion as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value of certain securities was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $141 million and $214 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table provides a breakdown of our other than temporary impairments and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the year ended December 31, 2008. 2008 PriceImpairment CreditImpairment Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Investment grade corporate $ (245 ) $ (169 ) $ (36 ) $ (450 ) High yield corporate (233 ) (13 ) (56 ) (302 ) Mortgage backed securities/Asset backed securities (100 ) 80 (20 ) Convertible bonds (74 ) (74 ) Fixed maturities and short term investments (578 ) (182 ) (86 ) (846 ) Equity securities (248 ) (101 ) (349 ) Other (56 ) 1 (55 ) Total $ (882 ) $ (182 ) $ (186 ) $ (1,250 ) The allocation of other than temporary impairments between those primarily triggered by severity of price decline versus credit loss is judgmental given that it is difficult to discern, on a security by security basis, the portion, if any, of price decline attributable to credit loss. The Credit Impairment column includes securities where credit losses represent all, or substantially all, of the price decline reflected as other than temporary impairments. The Price Impairment column includes the remaining other than temporary impairments. In light of the magnitude of our other than temporary impairments in 2008 relative to prior periods, comparative information for 2007 and 2006 is not meaningful. Other Net Realized Gains (Losses) principally includes gains and losses from security sales. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities in 2008 were concentrated in the financial services sector of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities in 2008 included approximately $150 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. Other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2008 of $248 million were driven by overall declines in the equity markets. Other than temporary impairments in 2007 and 2006 were $123 million and $198 million for fixed maturities, $16 million and $10 million for equities and $2 million and $6 million for other investments and were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase. Our net realized and unrealized loss in 2008 included approximately $2.1 billion of decline in our investment grade fixed income portfolio and approximately $873 million on our high yield bond portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our U.S. investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $1.1 billion of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments and $392 million of realized losses for impairments of fixed income investments related to temporary liquidity concerns and current market conditions. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold our fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $525 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to fully recognize the associated deferred tax asset as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized, and accordingly, we did not record a valuation allowance against this deferred tax asset. We engage in a securities lending program, which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in short term funds of high credit quality with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. During 2008, certain investments in the money market mutual funds purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in a $66 million unrealized loss. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value was temporary. 77 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 2006 Equity in net income (loss) of partially owned companies $ (52 ) $ 39 $ (60 ) Minority interest expense 11 7 8 Federal excise and capital taxes 16 18 10 Other (14 ) 17 7 Other (income) expense $ (39 ) $ 81 $ (35 ) Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited and Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO), which is included in equity in net income of partially owned companies. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $397 million, or $20.73 per share, compared with a market value of $218 million, or $11.40 per share, at December 31, 2008. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures with AGO. Our investment is not other than temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2008. On November 14, 2008, Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) announced a definitive agreement to purchase Financial Security Assurance, Inc. (FSA) from Dexia SA (Dexia) for a purchase price of $722 million. This transaction will be funded by $361 million in cash and 44,657,000 common shares of AGO. The acquisition is expected to close in March 2009. AGO will finance the cash portion of the acquisition with proceeds from a public equity offering to WL Ross & Co LLC (WLR) at a per share price between a floor of $6.00 and a ceiling of $8.50. EITF 08 6, Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations, requires ACE account for AGOs issuance of shares, and resulting dilutive effect, as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment. Assuming completion of the planned share issuances, ACE will no longer be deemed to exert significant influence over AGO and must account for our AGO investment as an available for sale equity security in accordance with FAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (FAS 115). FAS 115 requires that we then carry our AGO investment at fair value with any unrealized gains and losses reflected in other comprehensive income. Assuming AGO had completed its share issuances associated with the FSA acquisition on December 31, 2008, the application of FAS 115 would have reduced our book value by approximately $179 million. Other income and expense also includes certain federal excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.6 years at December 31, 2008, compared with 3.5 years at December 31, 2007. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced net unrealized losses of approximately $2.8 billion, primarily due to widening of credit spreads. We have the ability and intent to hold these securities until they recover their cost. Other investments principally comprises direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $76 million at December 31, 2008, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Our investment portfolio continues to be predominantly invested in investment grade fixed income securities and is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors and issuers. Our aggregate investment exposure to Lehman Brothers and American International Group has been and is a small percentage of our investment portfolio. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio. We provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer and our Treasurer. We also have well established strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 31,155 $ 33,109 $ 33,184 $ 32,994 Fixed maturities held to maturity 2,865 2,860 3,015 2,987 Short term investments 3,350 3,350 2,631 2,631 37,370 39,319 38,830 38,612 Equity securities 988 1,132 1,837 1,618 Other investments 1,362 1,368 1,140 880 Total investments $ 39,720 $ 41,819 $ 41,807 $ 41,110 The fair value of our total investments decreased $2.1 billion in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unrealized depreciation on investments, settlement of reverse repurchase agreements, redemption of our Preferred Shares, unfavorable foreign exchange impact, offset by the investing of operating cash flows and the net addition of Combined Insurances investment portfolio. Other investments increased primarily due to additional funding of limited partnerships and investment funds. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2008 2007 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentageof Total MarketValue Percentageof Total Treasury $ 1,018 3% $ 1,145 3% Agency 2,027 5% 1,820 5% Corporate 8,744 23% 9,015 23% Mortgage backed securities 10,986 29% 13,733 35% Asset backed securities 709 2% 1,150 3% Municipal 2,124 6% 1,844 5% Non U.S. 8,412 23% 7,492 19% Short term investments 3,350 9% 2,631 7% Total $ 37,370 100% $ 38,830 100% AAA $ 22,960 61% $ 24,553 63% AA 3,374 9% 3,747 10% A 5,497 15% 4,590 12% BBB 3,388 9% 3,297 8% BB 1,119 3% 1,073 3% B 934 3% 1,481 4% Other 98 89 Total $ 37,370 100% $ 38,830 100% 79 Table of Contents Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through investment portfolios managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2008, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately five percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 500 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $31 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACEs allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. ACEs high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (approximately 0.1 percent of investment portfolio). The table below summarizes our significant exposures to corporate bonds by market value and S&P credit rating as of December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 MarketValue Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) General Electric Co. $ 459 AAA JP Morgan Chase & Co. 365 A+ Bank of America Corp. 322 A+ Citigroup Inc. 293 A AT&T Inc. 189 A Wells Fargo & Co. 187 AA Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 179 A HSBC Holdings Plc 178 AA Wachovia Corp. 166 A+ Comcast Corp. 158 BBB+ Morgan Stanley 155 A Time Warner Inc. 155 BBB+ Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. 148 A+ Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 139 A Verizon Communication Inc. 138 A ConocoPhillips 115 A Credit Suisse Group 106 A XTO Energy Inc. 96 BBB Banco Santander SA 95 AA HBOS Plc 87 A+ Deutsche Telekom AG 87 BBB+ Telecom Italia SpA 86 BBB American International Group 83 A Dominion Resources Inc./VA 76 A American Express 74 A Total $ 4,136 80 Table of Contents Municipal bond portfolio Financial guarantee companies insure approximately $1.0 billion of our $2.1 billion municipal bond portfolio. These investments are made based on the underlying credit of the issuer and, as such, any decline in value because of a downgrade of bond insurers would be minimal. For example, without the AAA insurance guarantees, the average rating of this portfolio would fall to AA from AA+, which would result in a nominal decline in value. We would expect a similar market impact from the loss of AAA insurance guarantees on our $118 million in other investments wrapped by financial guarantors. Mortgage backed and asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Fair Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 406 $ $ $ $ $ 406 FNMA 4,483 4,483 Freddie Mac 2,071 2,071 Total agency RMBS 6,960 6,960 Non agency RMBS 1,764 56 34 24 7 1,885 Total RMBS 8,724 56 34 24 7 8,845 Commercial mortgage backed 2,126 4 9 2 2,141 Total mortgage backed securities $ 10,850 $ 60 $ 43 $ 26 $ 7 $ 10,986 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 60 $ 5 $ 6 $ 1 $ 4 $ 76 Credit Cards 53 15 6 74 Autos 312 44 5 8 369 Other 183 3 3 1 190 Total asset backed securities $ 608 $ 52 $ 29 $ 16 $ 4 $ 709 81 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed GNMA $ 395 $ $ $ $ $ 395 FNMA 4,340 4,340 Freddie Mac 1,999 1,999 Total agency RMBS 6,734 6,734 Non agency RMBS 2,454 84 63 43 7 2,651 Total RMBS 9,188 84 63 43 7 9,385 Commercial mortgage backed 2,434 4 9 3 2,450 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,622 $ 88 $ 72 $ 46 $ 7 $ 11,835 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 77 $ 6 $ 8 $ 1 $ 4 $ 96 Credit Cards 55 16 8 79 Autos 324 49 5 9 387 Other 187 5 3 195 Total asset backed securities $ 643 $ 60 $ 32 $ 18 $ 4 $ 757 Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. Refer to Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 1,165 $ 1,069 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 1,863 2,101 Other pledged assets 805 510 Trust funds 7,712 5,775 $ 11,545 $ 9,455 The value of restricted assets increased 22 percent in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the increased use of trust funds in support of inter company reinsurance and third party variable annuity business. 82 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2008 and 2007, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses $ 13,386 $ 13,990 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (451 ) (470 ) Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 12,935 13,520 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses 1,122 1,050 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (140 ) (216 ) Net reinsurance recoverable $ 13,917 $ 14,354 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits $ 259 $ 8 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decrease in reinsurance recoverable was due to a number of factors, the largest contributors are the decline due to foreign exchange revaluation of $387 million, collections on run off business of approximately $774 million, a decrease in gross and ceded IBNR on run off business as a result of a reserve review of $180 million offset by an increase of approximately $450 million of catastrophe losses ceded, primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The acquisition of Combined Insurance added $33 million to our reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses and $261 million to our reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits at the date of acquisition. Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, most A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings. As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities below. During 2008, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of December 31, 2007. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an independent actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. Management takes full responsibility for the estimation of its A&E liabilities. As a result of our internal review, we increased our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million (net of reinsurance provided by NICO), while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate net Brandywine liabilities that are little changed from a comparable study in 2006. We also decreased our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million (net of NICO), while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. 83 Table of Contents The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves (excludes Other run off liabilities), allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, and the provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables for the year ended December 31, 2008. Asbestos Environmental(2) Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net(1) Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 2,942 $ 1,482 $ 418 $ 393 $ 3,360 $ 1,875 Incurred activity 97 2 19 (2) 116 Payment activity (347) (99) (123) (75) (470) (174) Foreign currency revaluation (63) (16) (4) (2) (67) (18) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 2,629 $ 1,369 $ 310 $ 314 $ 2,939 $ 1,683 (1) The balance at December 31, 2007, was reduced by $10 million to reflect reserve reclassification between Asbestos and Other, refer to Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities. (2) At December 31, 2008, net environmental reserves are higher than gross environmental reserves because they include the provision for uncollectible paid reinsurance recoverables. The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2008, of $1.683 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.29 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $122 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $154 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda and $117 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the timing of the payment of the related claims. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from certain operations of Insurance Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine run off impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table presents Brandywine incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2008. Brandywine NICO Coverage(2) Net of NICO Coverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,344 $ 1,089 $ 2,433 $ 1,630 $ 803 Incurred activity 61 6 67 67 Payment activity (115) (83) (198) (213) 15 Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 1,290 $ 1,012 $ 2,302 $ 1,417 $ 885 (1) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. The A&E and Other balances were increased by $21 million and $25 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007, to more properly reflect unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves as part of Brandywine. The Other reserve balance at December 31, 2007, was further increased by $24 million to reflect final activity on the fourth quarter 2007 NICO bordereau. As a result of these adjustments, the total A&E and Other balances at December 31, 2007, have been increased by $70 million. (2) The balance at December 31, 2007, has been increased by $33 million to reflect final activity on the fourth quarter 2007 NICO bordereau. 84 Table of Contents The incurred activity was primarily related to our internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities resulting in an increase to our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $65 million, while the gross loss reserves increased by $143 million. Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2008, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $530 million, which is only available for losses and loss adjustment expenses. The increase in the remaining unused limit was primarily in connection with recording the results of our internal reserve review. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible paid and unpaid reinsurance recoverables in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. The table presents incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2008. Westchester Specialty NICO Coverage Net of NICO Coverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 214 $ 130 $ 344 $ 298 $ 46 Incurred activity (51 ) (3 ) (54 ) (41 ) (13 ) Payment activity (41 ) (2 ) (43 ) (41 ) (2 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 122 $ 125 $ 247 $ 216 $ 31 (1) The A&E balance at December 31, 2007, has been reduced by $10 million to reflect reserve classification between Asbestos and Other. Other reserves, which consist primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses, were increased by $10 million at December 31, 2007. The incurred activity was primarily related to our internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities resulting in a decrease to our net loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $13 million (net of NICO), while the gross loss reserves decreased by $10 million. Reserving considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites, we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2008 2007 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,169 1,391 Newly reported 75 87 Closed or otherwise disposed 46 309 Open at end of year 1,198 1,169 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 5,132 6,424 Newly reported 250 206 Closed or otherwise disposed 678 1,498 Open at end of year 4,704 5,132 85 Table of Contents Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly higher in 2007, compared with 2008, following a review in 2007 of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2008 and 2007. 2008 Survival Ratios 2007 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 8.3 9.6 8.3 18.2 10.2 10.7 10.6 10.6 Environmental 3.5 5.3 2.7 4.5 4.5 6.6 5.7 9.8 Total 7.2 8.2 6.8 11.2 8.9 9.3 9.6 10.4 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2008 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves, and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year gross survival ratios for both asbestos and environmental decreased markedly from 2007 due to a number of large settlements in 2008. This has resulted in a decline in the three year gross ratios as well, though to a lesser degree than seen in the 1 year ratios. The 1 year net asbestos ratio of 18.2 was abnormally high because of the relatively large ceded reinsurance associated with asbestos payments in 2008. Brandywine run off entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer), and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. Pursuant to an interpretation of the Brandywine restructuring order, the full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. Under the Restructuring Order, while any obligation to maintain the Dividend Retention Fund is in effect, to the extent dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The Dividend Retention Fund may not be terminated without prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner. In addition, an ACE INA insurance subsidiary provided reinsurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2008, was $25 million and approximately $112 million in statutory basis losses have been ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on an inception to date basis. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its liabilities, including certain asbestos related and environmental pollution liabilities. The reduction in 2008 in statutory basis losses ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement resulted principally from the cession of certain reinsurance amounts associated with estimates of reinsurer bad debt, to affiliated ACE companies, and from an increase in discount benefit. For 86 Table of Contents GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on a GAAP basis, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves and we adjust the statutory provision for uncollectible reinsurance to a GAAP basis amount. At December 31, 2008, approximately $407 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $393 million. At December 31, 2007, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $228 million. The reduction in GAAP basis losses ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement resulted principally from the previously mentioned cession of certain reinsurance bad debts to affiliated ACE companies. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to include any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties relating to ACEs ultimate Brandywine exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental, and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.3 billion. At December 31, 2008, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $3.1 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2008, approximately $1.4 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due from Century to its affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2008, losses ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $465 million in the aggregate. Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world. Our modeled annual aggregate 1 in 100 year return period U.S. hurricane probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $1.2 billion; i.e., according to the model there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.2 billion (or nine percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2008). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $141 billion. Our modeled single occurrence 1 in 100 return period California earthquake probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $887 million; i.e., according to the model there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any single California earthquake event could be in excess of $887 million (or approximately six percent our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2008). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, the industry losses would be approximately $39 billion. ACEs modeled losses reflect our in force portfolio as of October 1, 2008 and reinsurance program as of January 1, 2009. The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 87 Table of Contents Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2009, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage with the first layer being $200 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. We also purchased a reinsurance treaty that provides $95 million part of $150 million in coverage for U.S. property perils other than U.S. wind in excess of $700 million. In addition, to complement our core program, we purchased $50 million part of $150 million in excess of $960 million and approximately 50 percent of $49 million in excess of $911 million. Each program noted above has a single reinstatement available. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $712 million. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. This cover is $50 million part of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of an attachment point of $690 million. Finally, we also purchased a combined U.S. earthquake (covering the three territories noted above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of $100 million part of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of an attachment point of $960 million. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Fifty percent of the $200 million in excess of the $712 million attachment point in wind coverage, noted above, will expire in June 2009. We expect to replace this layer with a like amount of coverage but the final placement will be dependent upon price and terms available at that time. By way of comparison, the 2009 program has potentially approximately $20 million more in coverage for U.S. hurricane and California earthquake than the expiring program but our retention has increased. We consider our effective retention to be approximately $500 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of the U.S. and effective July 1, 2008, our core program is made up of two layers. We have protection of $50 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. In addition, we have another layer that provides $150 million in protection in excess of $100 million with one reinstatement. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million in excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million in excess of $250 million for Europe. Each of these top layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layers for Asia Pacific and Europe provide the same amount of coverage. Crop Insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and conduct that business through Rain and Hail L.L.C., a managing general agency (MGA). We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance book comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover crop losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail 88 Table of Contents exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarter and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. The premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. During the first quarter of each calendar year our MGA reports to us the results from the previous crop year. Typically, this results in an adjustment to the previously estimated losses and loss expenses and profit share commission which impacts our policy acquisition costs. For example, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the 2007 crop year settlement reduced our losses and loss expenses by approximately $105 million and gave rise to $44 million in profit share commission resulting in a net pre tax benefit to income of approximately $61 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted over the past year. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, and our investment performance. However, we believe that our present cash flows from operations, investing activities and financing activities are sufficient to fund our working capital and debt obligation needs. We do not expect this to change in the near term due in part to factors such as the following: ACEs balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital base. Our shareholders equity was $14 billion at December 31, 2008. Cash and AAA rated invested assets were $24 billion at December 31, 2008. Our sub prime portfolio represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008, and we hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations. We provide no credit default protection. We do not anticipate changes in our core insurance and reinsurance operations which would significantly impact liquidity, and we continue to maintain reinsurance contracts which limit the impact of potential catastrophic events. Our cash flows from operations have been relatively consistent, averaging over a $1 billion per quarter for the last five years. We expect our core insurance and reinsurance operations to continue to provide us with consistent cash flows going forward. Refer to Cash Flows, below. Financial flexibility at the holding company level remains strong given our operating companies dividend capacity. We anticipate minimal refinancing needs of existing debt over the next five years. Beyond five years, our current strategy is to schedule no more than $600 million maturing in any one year. Refer to the Contractual Obligations and Commitments table below. We have no main credit facility expiring within the next three years, and unused available credit of $729 million at December 31, 2008. We are not reliant on a single bank or group of banks and have not experienced unwillingness by our lenders to permit access to our existing credit facilities. At December 31, 2008, the minimum consolidated net worth require 89 Table of Contents ment under covenants related to our main credit facilities was $11.97 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under applicable covenants was $16.2 billion. Refer to Credit Facilities, below. On December 19, 2008, Standard & Poors announced that it was revising its outlook on ACE Limited and ACEs core operating insurance companies to positive from stable. S&P also reaffirmed all of ACEs counterparty credit and financial strength ratings, including its A+ Financial Strength rating for the core operating companies. This is important since our customers look to our financial strength ratings when assessing our claims paying ability, and certain of our credit facilities include financial strength covenants. Refer to Ratings, below. Throughout 2008, we were successful in executing securities repurchase agreements as a low cost financing alternative to short term debt, which allowed us to avoid liquidating higher yielding or temporarily distressed assets in our investment portfolio. We have not recently relied on the securitization markets for liquidity and therefore are not impacted by its current state. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. We have filed a shelf registration statement, expiring in December 2011, under which we may issue debt or equity securities. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. We expect that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2009. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2008, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.6 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (3.9 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investment, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2008, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares, Common Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. Should the need arise, we would expect to have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2008, ACE Bermuda declared and paid dividends of $502 million ($168 million in the prior year period), and ACE Tempest Life Re declared and paid dividends of $1.2 billion ($nil in the prior year period). A portion of the dividends received were used in connection with the acquisition of Combined Insurance. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2009 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior 90 Table of Contents regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2008 and 2007. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.7 billion in 2007. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income in 2008 was $1.2 billion compared with $2.6 billion in 2007. For 2008, significant adjustments included net realized gains (losses) of $1.6 billion, unpaid losses and loss expenses of $1.3 billion and accounts payable/accrued expenses of $638 million. The unpaid losses and loss expenses were significantly impacted by third quarter catastrophes and the first quarter settlement of the crop/hail business. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.5 billion in 2007. For the indicated periods, net investing activities were related primarily to net purchases and maturities on the fixed maturities portfolio and for 2008 included the acquisition of Combined Insurance of $2.56 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $314 million in 2008, compared with net cash flows used for financing activities of $253 million in 2007. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2008, include $1.2 billion net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt, partially offset by $575 million of net cash flows used for financing activities relating to the redemption of our Preferred Shares and dividends on our Common and Preferred Shares of $386 million. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs in order to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. We also utilize reverse securities repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. We utilized this funding source to fund part of the purchase of Combined Insurance. Refer to Short term Debt. 91 Table of Contents Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Short term debt $ 471 $ 372 Long term debt 2,806 1,811 Total debt 3,277 2,183 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 Common shareholders equity 14,446 16,120 Total shareholders equity 14,446 16,677 Total capitalization $ 18,032 $ 19,169 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 18.2% 11.4% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 19.9% 13.0% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities, which includes Common Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2008, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf registration capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen or opportunistic capital needs. Our currently effective unlimited shelf registration statement expires in December 2011. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have increased due to the decrease in shareholders equity and increase in debt. The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total shareholders equity, beginning of year $ 16,677 Net income 1,197 Dividends declared on Common Shares (364 ) Dividends declared on Preferred Shares (24 ) Redemption of Preferred Shares (575 ) Proceeds from exercise of stock options 97 Change (depreciation) on investments, net of income tax (2,302 ) Cumulative translation adjustment, net of income tax (392 ) Other movements, net 132 Total shareholders equity, end of year $ 14,446 Total shareholders equity decreased $2.2 billion in 2008 due to several factors. Net income of $1.2 billion included realized losses after tax of $1 billion on our investment portfolio and net fair value losses of $486 million on GMIBs. The change in net unrealized deprecation on investments of $2.3 billion was primarily due to the widening of credit spreads and the decline of the global equity markets. The cumulative translation declined as major currencies declined against the U.S. dollar. 92 Table of Contents Short term Debt At December 31, 2008, short term debt included $205 million of 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes maturing in December 2009, and a $16 million term loan maturing in September 2009 (refer to Long Term debt). In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes that mature December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $200 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with this issuance. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $70 million. In the event that we terminate the swap prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. Prior to the maturity of the 11.2 percent unsecured subordinated notes, we will evaluate the public and private debt markets, and if terms at the desired tenor are inconsistent with our capital objectives, we may choose to retire the notes with available cash. We have executed reverse repurchase agreements with certain counterparties whereby we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a date in the future for a predetermined price. During 2008, these included reverse repurchase agreements totaling $1 billion as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition and the October 2008 repayment of $250 million of ACE US Holdings senior notes. At December 31, 2008, short term debt included $250 million of amounts owed to brokers under reverse repurchase agreements. These agreements expired on February 4, 2009, at which time we entered into another $250 million reverse repurchase agreement with a 90 day term. In December 2008, we repaid the Australia Holdings PTY Ltd. AUD $100 million ($87 million at December 31, 2007) syndicated unsecured term loan. Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $2.8 billion is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In February 2008, ACE INA issued $300 million of 5.8 percent senior notes due March 2018 and, in April 2008, we entered into a $450 million unsecured term loan repayable in April 2013. The proceeds of the above referenced reverse repurchase agreements, the notes, and the term loan were applied to pay a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition of Combined Insurance. In connection with the term loan, we simultaneously entered into a $450 million swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate at 4.15 percent for the term of the loan. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. In May 2008, ACE INA issued $450 million of 5.6 percent senior notes, due May 2015. The net proceeds plus available cash were used to redeem all $575 million of the 7.8 percent Preferred Shares and related depository shares in June 2008. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In December 2008, ACE INA Holdings entered into a $66 million dual tranche floating interest rate term loan agreement. The first tranche, a $50 million three year term loan due December 2011, has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Simultaneously, we entered into a swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate, excluding fees and expenses, at 5.61 percent for the full term of the loan. The second tranche, a $16 million nine month term loan, due September 2009, has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Simultaneously, we entered into a swap transaction that has the economic effect of fixing the interest rate, excluding fees and expenses, at 3.02 percent for the full term of the loan. The swap counterparty is a highly rated financial institution and we do not anticipate non performance. The loan is unsecured and repayable on maturity and contains customary limitations on lien provisions as well as customary events of default provisions which, if breached, could result in the accelerated maturity of such debt. The obligation of the borrower under the loan agreement is guaranteed by ACE Limited. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. 93 Table of Contents Common Shares In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs and increased the par value of Ordinary Shares from $0.041666667 to CHF 33.74. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. At December 31, 2008, the par value of the Common Shares was CHF 33.14 following two quarterly par value reductions in the amount of CHF 0.30. Refer to Effects of the Continuation on Dividends, below. Effects of the Continuation on Dividends We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. For information on dividend payment and timing, refer to Item 5 of this Form 10 K. Under Swiss law all dividends and distributions through a reduction in par value must be approved in advance by our shareholders, though the determination of the record and payment dates may be delegated to our Board of Directors. Swiss law permits distributions to shareholders by way of par value reductions if (a) after the implementation of the par value reduction the reduced aggregate nominal value of the share capital and the statutory reserves is covered by net assets, (b) they are approved by shareholders at a general meeting, (c) our Swiss statutory auditor confirms to the general meeting in a written report that the claims of the creditors are fully covered despite the par value reduction, (d) creditors are informed by way of public notification in the Swiss Commercial Gazette that they can within two months ask for discharge of or the posting of security for their claims and (e) the par value reduction is registered in the Swiss commercial register. We currently intend, subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and the needs of our business, to propose at each annual general meeting, beginning with our annual general meeting in 2009, a reduction in par value that will be effected in four quarterly installments. The amount of a proposed par value reduction will be based on the Board of Directors determination of an appropriate U.S. dollar dividend for the succeeding year and will be converted into Swiss francs for purposes of obtaining shareholder approval based on the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the annual general meeting. At our 2008 annual general meeting, our shareholders approved payments of a dividend in the form of a par value reduction equal to CHF 0.90 per Common Share in the aggregate (equivalent at the time to U.S. $0.87 per Common Share), to be paid in three equal quarterly installments of CHF 0.30 (each equivalent at the time to U.S. $0.29 per Common Share). Dividends, including distributions through a reduction in par value, must be declared by ACE in Swiss francs. However, we have arranged it such that these distributions are paid to our shareholders in U.S. dollars at the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment date. As a result, under the current process, shareholders will be exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate between the date a dividend amount is determined and the relevant dividend payment date. For example, on January 12, 2009, we paid a quarterly dividend (through a reduction in par value) of U.S. $0.27 per Common Share to shareholders of record as of December 17, 2008. The payment amount was based on the January 5, 2009, U.S. dollar/Swiss Franc exchange rate of 1.083 applied to the quarterly par value reduction installment amount of CHF 0.30 referenced above. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The board of directors of a Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders meeting may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. As noted above, for the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. 94 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2008. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 345 $ 44 $ 112 $ 30 $ 159 Purchase obligations 595 108 322 165 Limited partnerships funding commitments 863 334 408 58 63 Operating leases 351 68 108 75 100 Short term debt 471 471 Long term debt 2,806 199 450 2,157 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,196 210 369 342 1,275 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 7,936 1,235 1,518 1,120 4,063 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,176 9,445 10,371 5,493 11,867 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 4,280 284 461 366 3,169 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 49,392 $ 10,964 $ 12,350 $ 6,979 $ 19,099 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in accordance with issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The FIN 48 liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, was $150 million at December 31, 2008. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of December 31, 2008, we had $14 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $310 million and contract holder deposit funds of $35 million at December 31, 2008. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. 95 Table of Contents Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $863 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, GMDBs and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for funds at Lloyds. 96 Table of Contents The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 500 $ 142 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 811 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited3 438 256 Dec. 2013 Total $ 1,938 $ 1,209 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) May also be used for LOCs. (3) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2008. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $11.7 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2008, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $11.97 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $16.2 billion and b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.182 to 1. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest, and preferred stock dividends. 97 Table of Contents It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Similarly, we have private debt that would require us to post additional collateral if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2008, a one notch downgrade of our S&P financial strength rating would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted (less than $25 million). Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 21 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty Ltd.) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates, and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or a determination is made to incur a charge for impairment. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $10.3 billion and $15.8 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2008. Our policies to address these risks in 2008 were not materially different from 2007. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. 98 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 37,370 $ 38,830 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,329 $ 1,281 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.6 % 3.3 % Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, Preferred Shares (redeemed in 2008), and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,344 $ 3,169 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 179 $ 235 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 5.3 % 7.4 % Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of equity securities $ 988 $ 1,837 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 99 $ 184 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 99 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2008 and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2008 2007 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,127 $ 1,651 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 7.8% 9.9% Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 84 $ 150 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. These reserves are calculated in accordance with SOP 03 1 (SOP reserves) and changes in these reserves are reflected as life and annuity benefit expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative according to FAS 133. The fair value liability established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the SOP 03 1 reserves. Changes in the fair value of the GMIB liability, net of associated changes in the calculated SOP 03 1 reserve, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. The ultimate risk to the variable annuity guaranty reinsurance business is a long term underperformance of investment returns, which can be exacerbated by a long term reduction in interest rates. Following a market downturn, continued market underperformance over a period of five to seven years would eventually result in a higher level of paid claims as policyholders accessed their guarantees through death or annuitization. However, if market conditions improved following a downturn, SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability would fall reflecting a decreased likelihood of future claims, which would result in an increase in both life underwriting income and net income. As of December 31, 2008, management established the SOP 03 1 reserve based on the benefit ratio calculated using actual market values at December 31, 2008. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the SOP 03 1 reserve. The SOP 03 1 reserve is based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Management will, in keeping with the language in SOP 03 1, regularly examine both quantitative and qualitative analysis and management will determine if, in its judgment, the change in the calculated benefit ratio is of sufficient magnitude and has persisted for a sufficient duration to warrant a change in the benefit ratio used to establish the SOP 03 1 reserve. This has no impact on either premium received or claims paid nor does it impact the long term profit or loss of the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. The SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The table below shows the sensitivity, as of December 31, 2008, of the SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes instruments purchased in January 2009, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Although these derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment, some portion of the change in value may be used to offset changes in the SOP 03 1 reserve. 100 Table of Contents The following table provides more information on our exposure to variable annuity sensitivities to equities and interest rates at December 31, 2008. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 89 $ 25 $ (60 ) $ (166) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 222 135 55 (15 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (80 ) (20 ) 46 118 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 231 $ 140 $ 41 $ (63 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 69 $ $ (91 ) $ (204 ) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 91 (89 ) (168 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (61 ) 67 140 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 99 $ $ (113) $ (232 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ 33 $ (41 ) $ (138 ) $ (258 ) (Increase)/decrease in net FVL (87 ) (189 ) (281 ) (356 ) (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (40 ) 22 90 163 (Increase)/decrease in net income $ (94 ) $ (208) $ (329 ) $ (451 ) A rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 65 (104) (6 ) 7 (6 ) 2 (Increase)/decrease in hedge value 5 (5 ) (Increase)/decrease in net income $ 65 $ (104 ) $ (6 ) $ 7 $ (1 ) $ (3 ) Mortality Lapses Annuitization Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions (in millions of U.S. dollars) +10% 10% +25% 25% +25% 25% (Increase)/decrease in SOP reserve $ (26 ) $ 27 $ 20 $ (23 ) $ (11 ) $ 14 (Increase)/decrease in net FVL 11 (11 ) 135 (166 ) (97 ) 105 (Increase)/decrease in hedge value (Increase)/decrease in net income $ (15 ) $ 16 $ 155 $ (189 ) $ (108 ) $ 119 The above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in A rated credit spreads impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The table above demonstrates, for example, that a 10 percent decrease in worldwide equities, all else equal, would increase our SOP 03 1 reserves by $91 million (subject to management judgment as described above) and cause a net realized loss of $89 million, offset by an increase in hedge value of $67 million, for a total reduction in net income of $113 million. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2008 market levels, but includes hedges entered into in January 2009. Because the new hedges were purchased after December 31, 2008, the increase (decrease) in hedge value for each of the above scenarios relative to December 31, 2008 market conditions, would be $25 million lower (higher). The above sensitivities are not directly additive, because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. 101 Table of Contents If the global equity market were to experience a 20 percent decrease from levels at December 31, 2008, all else being equal, any additional incremental capital required over the increase in SOP 03 1 reserves, would be approximately offset by the increase in value of currently held hedge assets. Changes in other market factors have a minor impact on required capital. However, we would be required to post additional collateral. From inception (July 2000) to December 31, 2008, the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio has produced the following cumulative results. Any increase in SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability should be taken in context of these results: Net premiums earned $1.06 billion Claims paid $104 million SOP 03 1 reserves held at December 31, 2008 $347 million Fair value GMIB liability held at December 31, 2008 $811 million Life underwriting income $685 million Net loss $11 million 
 
