Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 13,240 $ 13,203 $ 12,297 $ 11,825 $ 11,748 Net investment income 2,031 2,062 1,918 1,601 1,264 Net realized gains (losses): Net OTTI losses recognized in income (397 ) (1,064 ) (141 ) (214 ) (88 ) Net realized gains (losses) excluding OTTI losses 201 (569 ) 80 116 164 Total net realized gains (losses) (196 ) (1,633 ) (61 ) (98 ) 76 Losses and loss expenses 7,422 7,603 7,351 7,070 8,571 Policy benefits 325 399 168 123 143 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 3,941 3,872 3,226 3,171 2,924 Interest expense 225 230 175 176 174 Other (income) expense 85 (39 ) 81 (35 ) (25 ) Income tax expense 528 370 575 522 273 Income before cumulative effect 2,549 1,197 2,578 2,301 1,028 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (net of income tax) 4 Net income 2,549 1,197 2,578 2,305 1,028 Dividends on Preferred Shares (24 ) (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) Net income available to holders of Common Shares $ 2,549 $ 1,173 $ 2,533 $ 2,260 $ 983 Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 7.55 $ 3.50 $ 7.63 $ 6.87 $ 3.29 Diluted earnings per share(1) $ 7.55 $ 3.50 $ 7.63 $ 6.88 $ 3.29 Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 46,515 $ 39,715 $ 41,779 $ 36,601 $ 31,842 Cash 669 867 510 565 512 Total assets 77,980 72,057 72,090 67,135 62,440 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 25,038 24,241 23,592 22,008 20,458 Net future policy benefits 2,710 2,645 537 508 510 Long term debt 3,158 2,806 1,811 1,560 1,811 Trust preferred securities 309 309 309 309 309 Total liabilities 58,313 57,611 55,413 52,857 50,628 Shareholders equity 19,667 14,446 16,677 14,278 11,812 Book value per share $ 58.44 $ 43.30 $ 48.89 $ 42.03 $ 34.81 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% 61.2% 74.5% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio (3) 29.5% 29.0% 26.3% 26.9% 25.0% Combined ratio(4) 88.3% 89.6% 87.9% 88.1% 99.5% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 141.1% 186.1% 144.7% 157.7% 177.5% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 337,539,294 334,606,237 331,989,064 328,617,569 298,586,600 Cash dividends per share $ 1.19 $ 1.09 $ 1.06 $ 0.98 $ 0.90 (1) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to holders of Common Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding the Life segment premiums. Net premiums earned for the Life segment were $1.4 billion, $1.2 billion, $368 million, $274 million, and $248 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned, excluding the Life segment. (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries. We serve the property and casualty (P&C) insurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health and life insurance to individuals in select countries. At December 31, 2009, ACE had total assets of $78 billion and shareholders equity of $19.7 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. During the second quarter of 2009, we liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Redomestication to Zurich, Switzerland In July 2008, we transferred our domicile from the Cayman Islands to Zurich, Switzerland, our new jurisdiction of incorporation (the Continuation). In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. All Common Shares are registered shares with a current par value of CHF 31.88 each. Notwithstanding the change of the currency in which the par value of Common Shares is stated, we continue to use U.S. dollars as our reporting currency for preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. For the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. Refer to Liquidity for more information. The Combined Insurance Acquisition On April 1, 2008, ACE acquired all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance Company of America (Combined Insurance) and certain of its subsidiaries from Aon Corporation for $2.56 billion. Combined Insurance is an underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers 35 Table of Contents and small businesses in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. ACE recorded the Combined Insurance acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. Our consolidated operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. Investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO), a Bermuda based holding company, provides, through its operating subsidiaries, credit enhancement products to the public finance, structured finance, and mortgage markets. On July 1, 2009, AGO acquired Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd. from Dexia Holdings Inc., a subsidiary of Dexia S.A. The purchase price included approximately $546 million in cash and approximately 22.3 million AGO common shares, according to AGOs public filings. AGO financed the cash portion of the purchase price partly through a June 2009 issuance of 38.5 million common shares before the exercise of any overallotment option (June 2009 issuance), according to AGOs public filings. Prior to the June 2009 issuance, ACE included its investment in AGO in Investments in partially owned insurance companies using the equity method of accounting. Effective with the June 2009 issuance, ACE was deemed to no longer exert significant influence over AGO for accounting purposes and accounts for the investment in AGO as an available for sale equity security. ACE accounted for AGOs June 2009 issuance, and resulting dilutive effect, as if we had sold a proportionate share of the investment. ACE recognized a realized loss of $57 million related to AGOs dilutive common share issuance. During the fourth quarter of 2009, ACE further reduced its ownership in AGO to approximately seven percent. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of ACEs investment in AGO was $283 million and $56 million of unrealized gain on this investment was reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income. During the first quarter of 2010, we again reduced our interest in AGO and our current share of ownership is approximately three percent. Market Conditions The improvement in industry capital during 2009 as a result of greater financial markets stability and lower catastrophe losses has resulted in more competitive market conditions. From a risk reward perspective, we believe prices to be inadequate from an underwriting perspective in a number of lines of business and therefore industry profitability is under pressure. At ACE, we continue efforts to maintain strict underwriting discipline in order to ensure profitability currently and in the future. We are focused on continuing to build our capabilities expanding our product offerings, our underwriting and geographic presence, and special initiatives centered on certain customer segments and our distribution. We believe our financial strength, global presence and broad product offering, and our technical underwriting capability continue to attract business to our company. Policies submitted to us for quote were significantly higher in 2009, compared with 2008, as existing and prospective customers sought ACEs financial strength and underwriting capability. As a result, the number of accounts we bound were substantially higher in 2009, however because of our underwriting discipline, we wrote less new business. We are emphasizing renewal retention rates. Policy terms and conditions were relatively stable for the business we wrote, although there were increased requests for terms and conditions we found unacceptable. Despite favorable foreign exchange movements in the fourth quarter of 2009, our revenues were adversely impacted by a strong U.S. dollar for the year. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums written increased three percent in our P&C business in 2009, primarily driven by growth in our North American and international retail franchises. These businesses benefited from our increased local and global presence which allowed us to take advantage of competitors weakness, despite the recessions impact on pricing and demand for coverage. We reported growth in lines where we believe more than price matters our relative financial strength compared to competitors continued to produce business gains, and we have also benefited from growth in those areas of the market that have experienced underwriting losses and prices have risen adequately thus creating opportunity for ACE. Our Global Reinsurance business grew in 2009, with increases in both long tail and short tail lines, and benefited particularly from business written in the first half of the year when pricing was more favorable. With respect to market conditions at the January 1, 2010, renewal period, we observed a reduction in client demand and more supply as reinsurers were generally well capitalized as a result of the recovery of the financial markets and partly as a result of a lack of major catastrophes in 2009. As such, pricing decreased but continued to be sufficiently profitable, particularly for U.S. peak exposure. Pricing in non catastrophe areas or lines of business continued to decrease moderately, creating greater pressure on already stressed profit margins. We wrote modestly less business during the January 1 renewal period in 2009, compared with 2008. Our A&H business continues to be impacted by recession, although it stabilized in the fourth quarter on a constant dollar basis. The underlying long term trends of a growing middle class in Latin America and Asia, where we have substantial presence and capability, will continue to favor this business. We believe that the impact of recession on our A&H business is transient and we expect it to diminish as we progress through 2010. During 2009, we focused on increasing our A&H distribution capabilities, particularly in the retail travel and corporate customer segments, without neglecting our direct response distribution network, in order for our product portfolio to remain balanced. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; the valuation of our investment portfolio and assessment of other than temporary impairments (OTTI); the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) ; and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses Overview and key data As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but are unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations on claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). Loss reserves also include an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2009, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.8 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $25 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry net reserves of $76 million, net of discount. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 Losses and loss expenses incurred 11,141 3,719 7,422 10,944 3,341 7,603 Losses and loss expenses paid (11,093 ) (4,145 ) (6,948 ) (9,899 ) (3,572 ) (6,327 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 559 236 323 (1,367 ) (387 ) (980 ) Losses and loss expenses acquired 386 33 353 Balance, end of year $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 (1) Net of provision for uncollectible reinsurance 37 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 17,307 $ 6,664 $ 10,643 $ 16,583 $ 6,539 $ 10,044 IBNR reserves 20,476 6,081 14,395 20,593 6,396 14,197 Total $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 The following table segregates loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2009 and 2008. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,149 $ 1,600 $ 1,549 $ 3,180 $ 1,367 $ 1,813 Loss expenses 260 81 179 264 92 172 IBNR reserves 2,028 815 1,213 2,456 1,084 1,372 Subtotal 5,437 2,496 2,941 5,900 2,543 3,357 Casualty Case reserves 9,506 3,177 6,329 8,700 3,178 5,522 Loss expenses 3,773 1,661 2,112 3,871 1,779 2,092 IBNR reserves 17,777 5,110 12,667 17,455 5,144 12,311 Subtotal 31,056 9,948 21,108 30,026 10,101 19,925 A&H Case reserves 588 144 444 536 121 415 Loss expenses 31 1 30 32 2 30 IBNR reserves 671 156 515 682 168 514 Subtotal 1,290 301 989 1,250 291 959 Total Case reserves 13,243 4,921 8,322 12,416 4,666 7,750 Loss expenses 4,064 1,743 2,321 4,167 1,873 2,294 IBNR reserves 20,476 6,081 14,395 20,593 6,396 14,197 Total $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and 38 Table of Contents where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is, by definition, limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may include the use and interpretation of various standard actuarial reserving methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns, and industry data as needed. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary, qualitative, and subjective factors. Among some of these factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, the legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluations that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods but are based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact. Standard actuarial reserving methods The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made, where appropriate, to how consideration in method selection impacted 2009 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data are aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred accident year or report year, for example) and annual or quarterly development periods. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year is initially established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used as the basis for the actuarial central estimate for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data 39 Table of Contents is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for relatively new product lines that have limited historical data or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as they often have a sufficient history and volume of claims experience to be credible. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Determining managements best estimate Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line and establish an actuarial central estimate at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuaries, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and unit senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and its senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; historical variability of actual loss emergence compared with expected loss emergence; perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate ranges of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Such ranges are generally not a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date 40 Table of Contents whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.3 billion and represents six percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2009. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1, for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Consolidated Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail and long tail business Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting and development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2009 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2009. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2009 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and expected future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more subjective relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset the impact of recent favorable loss development. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2009 calendar year arose from origin years 2004 2008. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life segments experienced $105 million, $115 million, $49 million, and $3 million of favorable prior period development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2004 2008 origin years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2008 origin years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2007 origin years princi 41 Table of Contents pally in response to the latest reported loss data, rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to short tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2009, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to report and settle/close. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is sometimes too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can alter the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2009 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2009 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. Recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations. While we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible to be fully reflected in our booked ultimate losses for immature years, we have been giving increasing weight to emerging experience as origin years mature and the loss emergence gains credibility. 42 Table of Contents Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2009 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2009 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to fully reflect in our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. Our booked reserves for origin years 2007 2009 include reserves for what we believe to be our exposure to claims related to the credit crunch and recent financial frauds (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature accident years, typically 2005 and prior, we relied upon paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. The prior period development in 2009 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of origin years in all segments. While there were a number of reasons for the 2009 development, the movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2009 that differed notably from the expected loss emergence and where such deviations were deemed significant enough to warrant revising the projections for certain product lines. The nature of the changes to booked ultimate losses, and the associated impact on the prior origin years, varies by product line. For example, in Insurance North American, the changes to recorded estimates for foreign casualty products lines and ACE Financial Solutions business principally related to actual loss emergence that was lower than anticipated. This resulted in $42 million and $33 million of favorable development, respectively. Insurance North American also experienced $52 million of favorable development in national accounts loss sensitive business that resulted from a reduction in the estimates of retrospectively rated premiums and therefore resulted in corresponding decreases to premium based estimates of ultimate losses. There was also $47 million of unfavorable development in Insurance North American Brandywine operations for accident years prior to 1999 in assumed reinsurance pools that resulted from the receipt of updated information on pool reserves, the adverse impact of recent activity on a litigated claim, and a 2009 audit finding. There was $211 million of favorable development in Insurance Overseas General for accident years 2005 and prior, primarily in casualty and financial lines. This development was principally due to actual loss experience that was lower than expected and an increase in the weight given experience based methods as these years mature. There was $93 million of favorable development in long tail lines in Global Reinsurance mainly on treaty years 2003 2005. This development was principally due to actual loss experience that was lower than expected and an increase in the weight given experience based methods as these years mature. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to long tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2009, refer to Prior Period Development. Sensitivity to underlying assumptions While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2009, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by four portfolios that represent the majority of our first dollar workers compensation exposure requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the reported loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would 43 Table of Contents cause a change of approximately $100 million, either positive or negative, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1 billion. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $325 million and gross limits of up to $150 million) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $125 million and gross limits of up to $50 million). Due to the layer of exposure covered, the expected frequency for this book is very low. As a result of the low frequency/high severity nature of the book, a small difference in the actual vs. expected claim frequency, either positive or negative, could result in a material change to the projected ultimate loss if such change in claim frequency was related to a policy where close to maximum limits were deployed. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2001 2007 by approximately $221 million. This movement is relative to recorded net IBNR reserves of approximately $1.4 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected ultimate net losses and loss expenses. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $256 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2009, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $788 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2008, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.5 billion, consisting of $836 million of case reserves and $1.7 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and 44 Table of Contents The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2009, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $768 million, compared with the $788 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid loss and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2009, ACE conducted its annual internal, ground up review of its consolidated A&E liabilities as at December 31, 2008. As a result of the internal review, the Company increased its net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $44 million (net of reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company (NICO)), while the gross loss reserves increased by $198 million. In addition, the Company decreased gross loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $64 million, while the net loss reserves did not change. Our A&E reserves are not discounted for GAAP reporting and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. For more information refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities and to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, endowment products, and annuities. In accordance with GAAP, we establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved 45 Table of Contents actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract meaning we use our original assumptions throughout the life of the policy and do not subsequently modify them unless we deem the reserves to be inadequate. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represented the fair value of the future profits of the in force contracts. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to arrive at the present value of the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively policy acquisition costs) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. Policy acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, including investment income. If such costs are unrecoverable, they are expensed in the period this determination is made. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002. These contracts principally provided severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and were accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the NICO contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively 46 Table of Contents few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $424 million of net premiums earned in 2009, comprised of $299 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $125 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. These have been deemed to have met risk transfer requirements. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 47 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Lossesand LossExpenses Recoverables(net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 10,762 $ 9,735 $ 259 Reinsurers not rated 460 386 136 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 191 181 112 Captives 1,686 390 30 Other structured settlements and pools 1,078 1,078 45 Total $ 14,177 $ 11,770 $ 582 At December 31, 2009, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2009, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $167 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairments (OTTI) Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value, refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income (as discussed below). We adopted provisions included in ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities, related to the recognition and presentation of OTTI as at April 1, 2009. Under these provisions, if we have the intent to sell an impaired fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred, and we are required to record the OTTI in net income. Further, in cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we must evaluate the security to determine the portion of the impairment, if any, related to credit losses. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred and any portion of the OTTI related to credit losses must be reflected in net income while the portion of OTTI related to all other factors is included in other comprehensive income. For fixed maturities held to maturity, OTTI recognized in other comprehensive income is accreted from accumulated other comprehensive income to the amortized cost of the fixed maturity prospectively over the remaining term of the securities. These newly adopted provisions do not have any impact on the accounting for OTTI for any other type of investment. Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturity securities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. For impaired fixed maturities, if we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. In cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we evaluate the security to determine if a credit loss has occurred based on a combination of qualitative and quantitative factors including a discounted cash flow model, where necessary. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. Prior to the adopted provisions when evaluating fixed maturities for OTTI, we principally considered our ability and intent to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period, the issuers financial condition, and our assessment (using available market information such as credit ratings) of the issuers ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis. The factors that we now consider when determining if a credit loss exists related to a fixed maturity security are discussed in Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All significant assumptions used in determining credit losses are subject to change as market conditions evolve. We review all non fixed maturity investments for OTTI based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in a loss position and the magnitude of the loss position; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions and other issuer specific developments; and our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period. As a general rule, we also consider that equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months are impaired. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in OTTI that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred tax asset was $1.2 billion. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred 49 Table of Contents tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2009, the valuation allowance of $34 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Fair value measurements We partially adopted the provisions (specific provisions described below) included in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, on January 1, 2008. We fully adopted the provisions effective January 1, 2009. These provisions define fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establishes a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with the GAAP definition of fair value as an exit price. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all applicable investments have been valued in accordance with GAAP valuation principles. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. At December 31, 2009, our Level 3 assets represented four percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and two percent of our total assets. Our Level 3 liabilities represented 13 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and one percent of our total liabilities at December 31, 2009. During 2009, we transferred $55 million out of our Level 3 assets. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the valuation measurements used for our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy (Levels 1, 2, and 3) as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) derivatives Under life reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of GMIBs associated with variable annuity (VA) contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and benefit reserves is reflected in Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in Net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying annuities through lapses, annuitization, or death). At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will 50 Table of Contents net to zero (excluding cumulative hedge gains or losses) because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices and other assumptions on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. Refer to Note 2 j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the policyholder will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus, benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and the level of interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Based on our quarterly reserve review, we increased our assumed GMIB annuitization rates for policies with deep in the money guarantees. In the aggregate, this change along with certain refinements of our model, increased our fair value liability by $28 million, which decreased net income accordingly. During 2009, we recorded $368 million of realized gains for GMIB reinsurance, primarily due to a rising equity market and increased interest rate levels, partially offset by narrowing A rated credit spreads (A rated credit spreads are a proxy for ACEs own credit spreads) and the receipt of premium (which increases the fair value). This excludes realized losses of $363 million during 2009 on derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for a breakdown of the realized gains on GMIB reinsurance and the realized losses on the derivatives for 2009 and 2008. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All variable annuity guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract but some examples of typical contract provisions include: annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured account or guaranteed value, for GMDBs and GMIBs; and annual annuitization rate limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible account or guaranteed value, for GMIBs. A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $47 million and $280 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparties, on a daily basis. 51 Table of Contents We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. ACE Tempest Life Re did not quote on new or renewal variable annuity transactions in 2009 or 2008, and the aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5 10 percent annually. Note that GMIB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first annuitization eligibility Percent ofliving accountvalues 2010 and prior &lt;1% 2011 &lt;1% 2012 7% 2013 25% 2014 19% 2015 5% 2016 6% 2017 17% 2018 and after 20% Total 100% The following table provides the historical cash flows under these policies for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 109 $ 122 Less paid claims 151 68 Net $ (42 ) $ 54 Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premium $ 161 $ 149 Less paid claims 4 Net $ 157 $ 149 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 270 $ 271 Less paid claims 155 68 Net $ 115 $ 203 The amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. Death Benefits (GMDB) For premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring GMDBs, at current market levels we expect approximately $130 million of claims and $102 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months. Living Benefits (includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring predominantly GMIBs and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB) are collectively known as Living Benefits. Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. The vast majority of these policyholders begin to become eligible in 2013. At current market levels we expect approximately $1 million of claims and $151 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months. Capital At December 31, 2009, the capital required to support the variable annuity guaranty business was approximately $550 million. All else equal, any additional capital required as a result of a falling equity market would be approximately offset by the increase in the fair value of currently held hedge assets. 52 Table of Contents Collateral In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit, ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, in an amount sufficient for them to obtain statutory reserve credit. On December 31, 2009, a new statutory reserve guideline adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners took effect in the U.S. called Actuarial Guideline 43 that governs statutory reserve calculation for variable annuity guarantees. In many cases this resulted in an increase to ceded statutory reserves from our U.S. domiciled clients and the collateral ACE Tempest Life Re holds on their behalf. ACE Tempest Life Re has access to both letter of credit capacity and trustable assets that are sufficient (based on current estimates) to meet the funding requirements. The timing and amount of the calculation of the collateral varies by client according to the particulars of the reinsurance treaty and the statutory reserve guidelines of the clients state of domicile. Claim limits Approximately 64 percent of the GMDB guaranteed value has an annual claim limit expressed as two percent of the aggregate total account value reinsured. The remainder of the GMDB guaranteed value is covered under treaties with limits calculated on other bases either annual, aggregate, or at an individual policy level. The majority of this remainder has an annual limit calculated as a percentage of the total guaranteed value reinsured, with the percentage varying by contract from 0.22 percent to 1.8 percent. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired, was $3.8 billion at December 31, 2009. The ACE INA and Combined Insurance acquisitions represent the majority of this balance. During 2009, our goodwill balance was increased by approximately five percent, primarily due to foreign exchange movements at the legal entity level. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment evaluation involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if a potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured and recorded. We performed our impairment testing for 2009 and determined that no impairment was required. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the North American and international divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. To estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value models apply multiples of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model allocates our market capitalization to each reporting unit. We must assess whether the current fair value of our reporting units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our reporting units, including: short term and long term growth rates; estimated cost of equity and changes in long term risk free interest rates; selection of appropriate earnings and book value market multiples to be utilized in various multiple approaches; and risk premium applied in determining discount rate for calculating net present value of estimated future cash flows. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. 53 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 Our consolidated operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 13,299 $ 13,080 $ 11,979 2% 9% Net premiums earned 13,240 13,203 12,297 0% 7% Net investment income 2,031 2,062 1,918 (2)% 8% Net realized gains (losses) (196 ) (1,633 ) (61 ) 88% NM Total revenues $ 15,075 $ 13,632 $ 14,154 11% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 7,422 7,603 7,351 (2)% 3% Policy benefits 325 399 168 (19)% 138% Policy acquisition costs 2,130 2,135 1,771 (0)% 21% Administrative expenses 1,811 1,737 1,455 4% 19% Interest expense 225 230 175 (2)% 31% Other (income) expense 85 (39 ) 81 NM NM Total expenses $ 11,998 $ 12,065 $ 11,001 (1)% 10% Income before income tax 3,077 1,567 3,153 96% (50)% Income tax expense 528 370 575 43% (36)% Net income $ 2,549 $ 1,197 $ 2,578 113% (54)% NM not meaningful Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year (the prior year period included the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and increased assumed loss portfolio business. We also reported increased retained premium from P&C reinsurance, increased retail specialty casualty production and benefitted from the annual first quarter crop settlement (refer to Crop Insurance), partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impact, and lower production in wholesale P&C, retail national accounts, property, and personal lines. With respect to the personal lines business which we acquired in early 2008, we recorded a one time portfolio assumption of $76 million in net premiums written as part of the acquisition. Excluding the impact of this one time portfolio assumption, the personal lines business reported growth in 2009, compared with 2008. Refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. Net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the acquired Combined Insurance, which added $1.1 billion. Excluding the impact of acquired businesses, net premiums written declined two percent in 2008, reflecting the competitive conditions we experienced across most lines of business and regions of operation, as well as recession related exposure reductions. The year ended December 31, 2007, included a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned for 2009 were stable compared with 2008, as declines in wholesale P&C, and retail national accounts and property business, as well as an unfavorable foreign exchange impact were offset by growth in assumed loss portfolio business, crop business, and retail specialty casualty and included Combined Insurances results for the full period. The increase in 2008 net premiums earned, compared with 2007, was primarily related to the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion. As discussed above, the one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program added approximately $170 million to net premiums earned in 2007. 54 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 4.8% 8.3% Foreign exchange effect (3.1)% 0.9% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.7% 9.2% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 3.5% 6.5% Foreign exchange effect (3.2)% 0.9% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 0.3% 7.4% The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 % Change 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Property and all other $ 4,023 $ 3,954 $ 3,811 2% 4 % Casualty 5,587 5,838 6,464 (4)% (10 )% Subtotal 9,610 9,792 10,275 (2)% (5 )% Personal accident (A&H) 3,103 2,949 1,654 5% 78 % Life 527 462 368 14% 26 % Net premiums earned $ 13,240 $ 13,203 $ 12,297 0% 7 % 2009 % of total 2008 % of total 2007 % of total Property and all other 30% 30% 31% Casualty 42% 44% 53% Subtotal 72% 74% 84% Personal accident (A&H) 24% 22% 13% Life 4% 4% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. Net investment income was also adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements in 2009. Net investment income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting loss. 55 Table of Contents The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 16.2% 16.2% 14.5% Administrative expense ratio 13.3% 12.8% 11.8% Combined ratio 88.3% 89.6% 87.9% The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% Catastrophe losses (1.2)% (4.7)% (1.3)% Prior period development 4.9% 6.8% 1.8% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.8)% 0.0% (0.5)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 61.7% 62.7% 61.6% We recorded $137 million in net catastrophe losses in 2009, compared with $567 million and $159 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to an earthquake in Asia, floods in Europe, several weather related events in the U.S., and a European windstorm. For 2008, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and floods in the U.S. We experienced $579 million of net favorable prior period development in 2009. This compares with $814 million of net favorable prior period development in 2008, and $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007. The prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable in 2009, compared with 2008, as increases in our Combined Insurance operations were offset by more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. Administrative expenses increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance for the full year and costs associated with new product expansion in our domestic retail operation and in our personal lines business. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased significantly in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business, including the Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H. A&H business typically requires higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. Our administrative expenses increased in 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to the acquired businesses. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 17 percent in 2009, compared with 24 percent and 18 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. For 2008, our effective tax rate was adversely impacted by a higher proportion of our earnings being generated in higher tax paying jurisdictions due to the impact of catastrophe losses experienced in lower tax paying jurisdictions. Net realized losses were significant in 2008, and were primarily related to widening credit spreads in our high quality corporate bond portfolio and changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $579 million on net unpaid losses and loss expenses during 2009 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates 56 Table of Contents recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. With respect to ACEs crop business, ACE regularly receives reports from its MGA relating to the previous crop year(s) in subsequent calendar quarters and this typically results in adjustments to the previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission. Commencing in the third quarter of 2009, prior period development for ACEs crop business includes adjustments to both crop losses and loss expenses, and the related crop profit share commission. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment by claim tail attribute are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability, while short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of net unpaidreserves* 2009 Insurance North American $ (74 ) $ (105 ) $ (179 ) 1.2 % Insurance Overseas General (140 ) (115 ) (255 ) 4.2 % Global Reinsurance (93 ) (49 ) (142 ) 5.6 % Life (3 ) (3 ) 1.4 % Total $ (307 ) $ (272 ) $ (579 ) 2.4 % 2008 ` Insurance North American $ (131 ) $ (220 ) $ (351 ) 2.4 % Insurance Overseas General (131 ) (173 ) (304 ) 4.7 % Global Reinsurance (17 ) (142 ) (159 ) 5.9 % Total $ (279 ) $ (535 ) $ (814 ) 3.5 % * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expenses reserves. Insurance North American Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $179 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $74 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $42 million in our foreign casualty product lines where both paid and reported incurred loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity was favorable relative to the expected activity implied in our prior review, particularly for workers compensation and general liability coverages. One portfolio typically includes high volume, low average premium business covering overseas exposures with shorter development patterns than typically found for larger commercial risks. For this portfolio, the favorable development was concentrated in the 2006 accident year. The other portfolios represent large, risk management accounts. For these exposures, the favorable development was primarily associated with the 2004 and 2005 accident years; Adverse development totaling $13 million on excess liability coverage in report year 2005 in response to a court decision made during 2009; Adverse development of $19 million in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios. The development affected accident periods in the late 1980s and the 2007 and 2008 accident years. The deterioration on the older accident periods was due to higher than expected incurred claims activity in 2009. The development on 2007 and 2008 was largely a function of higher allocated claims expenses than forecast. A possible trend in higher allocated costs was first observed in mid 2008. A study of these costs was completed early in 2009, leading to an increase in our estimates for these accident years; Favorable development of $15 million in our commercial surety business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Our estimates of ultimate losses anticipated higher than historical levels of incurred loss development due to the impact of the recession. However, the actual loss activity for the 2007 accident year in calendar year 2008 was in line with historical levels despite the downturn in the economy; Favorable development of $52 million in our national accounts loss sensitive accounts unit impacting the 2005 2007 accident years. This development represents the reduction in premium based loss reserves that resulted from a $96 million reduction in our estimate of retrospectively rated premiums for the 2004 2007 policy years due to a refinement in 57 Table of Contents our estimation process. The change in estimate of retrospectively rated premiums was triggered by a ground up, policy level review conducted by ACE during 2009. The policy level review relies on more disaggregated policy data than our prior estimation process; Favorable development of $15 million in our medical risk business unit with the favorable activity concentrated in the 2004 and 2005 report years for hospital professional liability business. Our portfolio includes both primary and excess facilities business written primarily on a claims made basis. Loss activity in 2009 for this business was lower than expected. In addition, all open claims for the 2005 and prior report years were reviewed in 2009, and updated using the most recent available information. This review led to a revision in our estimate of ultimate losses for the portfolio; Favorable development of $33 million in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit concentrated in policies issued in the 2004 2006 years. This favorable development was a function of a continuation of lower than expected loss development, first observed in 2008, on a small number of large risks with predominantly workers compensation exposure; Favorable development of $10 million in our management liability product line, associated with the 2004 and prior accident years. A large portion of this favorable development was the result of savings on a large claims settlement in 2009; Favorable development of $17 million for long tail lines in our programs division, primarily attributable to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Reported and paid loss experience in the general liability and auto liability sub lines continued to develop lower than expected in our prior review and our pricing assumptions; and Adverse development of $80 million in our Brandywine operations, impacting accident years 1999 and prior comprising several components. First, adverse development of $47 million in assumed reinsurance pools which was the combined impact from receipt of updated information on pool reserves, adverse impact of recent activity on a litigated claim and a 2009 audit finding that assumed losses payable had not been registered, thereby causing an understatement of required reserves in prior quarters. Second, adverse development of $18 million on assumed reinsurance reserves following review of the adequacy of certain retrocessional reinsurance protections. Third, adverse development of $28 million on workers compensation business due to higher than expected case incurred loss development since the last review. Finally, favorable development of $13 million on asbestos and pollution reserves, primarily due to higher than expected ceded reinsurance billings on paid losses. Net favorable development of $105 million on short tail business, including: Adverse development of $3 million on property business comprising two main components. First, there was adverse development of $25 million in our retail property and energy portfolios, primarily impacting the 2005 2008 accident years as a result of adverse development on known claims and our share of a reinsurance pool. Second, there was favorable development of $22 million in another unit, principally arising on the 1997 and 2005 2008 accident years from favorable development on known claims and a lack of emergence of newly reported claims; Favorable development of $24 million on political risk business relating to the 2006 2008 accident years as a result of a lack of claims emergence and favorable development in the 2005 accident year related to closure of a claim without payment; Favorable development of $13 million in our crop/hail business associated with recording the most recent bordereaux, primarily for the 2008 crop year; Favorable development of $17 million in our Canadian A&H business affecting the 2008 and prior accident years. This resulted from a reconciliation of statutory and GAAP ledger balances completed in 2009; Favorable development of $17 million for short tail lines in our programs division, primarily attributable to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Reported and paid loss experience in the general liability, property, auto liability, and auto physical damage sub lines continued to develop lower than expected in our prior review and relative to our pricing assumptions; Favorable development of $8 million in our recreational marine portfolio, primarily affecting accident years 2004 2008. Reported loss activity for these accident years was lower than expected during 2009; and Favorable development of $29 million across a number of short tail lines in a number of accident years for a variety of reasons. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business, including: Adverse development of $15 million in ACEs national accounts workers compensation portfolios comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $47 million arising on accident year 2007, due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents. The majority of ACEs exposure for these perils falls under ACEs national 58 Table of Contents accounts high deductible and excess product lines. ACE evaluates this exposure on an annual basis, after the accident year has closed, allowing for the late reporting or identification of significant losses and for an initial assessment of the accident year. ACEs review in 2008 of potential 2007 events, coupled with ACEs initial assessment of the accident year has led to a decrease in ACEs estimate of the required provision for these claims. Second, adverse development of $62 million relating to 2003 and prior accident years. This development was the direct result of reported loss activity greater than expected in ACEs prior review. During 2008 a targeted open case reserve review was conducted by ACEs claims staff which resulted in a number of material case reserve increases that were not anticipated in ACEs prior estimates of ultimate loss; Favorable development of $32 million in ACEs national accounts commercial auto and general liability product lines comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $19 million was mainly from accident years 2003 and prior for exposures written on an excess basis. The combination of continued lower than expected reported incurred loss activity for the 2001 2003 accident years as well as increased weighting on loss development reserving methods, as these years mature, has driven the majority of the improvement in projected ultimate losses. Second, favorable development of $13 million relating to the 1999 2002 accident years, primarily on a block of run off programs comprising general liability, auto liability, and workers compensation product coverages. This favorable development was a result of lower than expected paid and case incurred development observed in the most recent reserve review which resulted in lower selected ultimate loss projections; Adverse development of $10 million related to higher than expected loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity on reported claims in ACEs small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios, primarily affecting the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Case activity on these portfolios through calendar year 2007 and into 2008 was higher than expectations and ACE adjusted its estimates of ultimate loss accordingly. Prior estimates relied heavily on industry benchmarks including average severity trends; Adverse development of $29 million on a portfolio of primary casualty business written by the wholesale division and impacting the 2002 2004 accident years. This adverse activity was a function of higher than expected loss and allocated expenses on business that has a heavy concentration of exposure to commercial contractors. In the past few quarters, both paid and incurred development patterns for the tail period beyond 60 months have developed worse than industry benchmark factors which formed the basis for ACEs projections in prior analyses; Favorable development of $19 million on excess casualty and umbrella business in ACEs wholesale unit, primarily impacting accident years 2002 2004. This favorable activity was a function of a shift in weighting from expected loss based reserving methods to direct projections of ultimate losses as this long tailed exposure begins to mature for these accident periods; Adverse development of $10 million on a professional lines claim in accident year 2001 as a result of a review in 2008, that identified significant erosion below ACEs attachment; Adverse development of $29 million on ACEs portfolio of Defense Base Acts workers compensation coverage (covers employees of U.S. government contractors overseas). ACE experienced higher than expected incurred loss development since the last reserve study concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years. The majority of the development was related to increases in case reserves on known claims for these accident years, and recorded in 2008. These increases were judged to be more than claim acceleration and resulted in significant increases in the 2006 and 2007 accident year ultimate loss projections given the immaturity of the impacted accident years and long tail nature of the portfolio; Favorable development of $46 million on ACEs medical risk business, primarily in its hospital professional liability portfolio for the 2004 and 2005 accident years. Coverage is provided on a claims made basis and both paid and case incurred loss activity since ACEs last review have been favorable relative to expected. As these accident periods have matured, ACE has gradually increased the weight applied to experience based methods, including the Bornhuetter Ferguson method, and placed less weight on the initial expected loss ratio method; Favorable development of $34 million in ACEs management and professional liability product lines. This development was the net result of favorable development totaling $117 million associated with the 2005 and prior accident years and adverse development of $81 million with respect to the 2007 accident year. The favorable prior period development was a function of a review of all open claims in ACEs retail management liability operation and a reassessment of the potential ultimate exposure on these claims. This reassessment of exposure and the maturation of these accident periods supported increasing the weight given to experience based loss projections. The adverse development relating to the 2007 accident year is due solely to a claim by claim review of exposures impacted by the ongoing credit crisis including but not limited to sub prime mortgages. These claim file reviews occurred during the 2008 calendar year as facts and circumstances surrounding these exposures continued to emerge and develop; 59 Table of Contents Favorable development of $51 million on long tail exposures in ACEs Canadian P&C operations, principally arising in the 2005 accident year on excess casualty, umbrella, and D&O product lines. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since ACEs prior analysis. In addition, ACE has increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident years mature; Favorable development of $68 million for accident years 2003 2006 due to the expiration of a large, multi year insurance contract written in the ACE Financial Solutions business unit. This contract included a significant per occurrence limit excess of a high attachment point. Coverage was provided on an integrated occurrence basis requiring notice of an event during the policy period. ACE completed a detailed claims audit in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to an adjustment to the booked loss and loss expense reserves; Adverse development of $51 million on run off casualty reserves, including asbestos and environmental, in the Brandywine and ACE Westchester business units following completion of ACEs internal ground up review of asbestos and environmental liabilities for the most significant policyholders identified to date. This adverse development arose from several sources; the principal one was as a result of increased defense costs in litigating traditional tort defenses on asbestos cases; and Favorable development of $16 million relating to the completion of account reconciliations that identified duplicate loss processing, over processed coinsurance, and unregistered reinsurance recoveries. Net favorable development of $220 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $116 million on the wholesale divisions crop/hail business relating to the recording of the 2007 crop year bordereau received in 2008; Adverse development totaling $33 million relating to increases in ACEs estimates of losses for the 2005 hurricanes, primarily in wholesale property ($23 million) and ACE Financial Services International (ACE FSI) ($10 million). The wholesale property development was due primarily to settlement on several excess policies above ACEs prior case reserves, resulting in higher estimates of ultimate loss. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. The ACE FSI development was due to adverse development on a retrocessional program following a review of the programs claim circumstances; Favorable development of $13 million relating to lower than expected paid claims for the 2007 accident year on a run off portfolio of warranty business, mostly automobile extended warranty contracts. The change was driven primarily by recognition of recent paid claim experience, as a percentage of earned premiums, which has been lower than the historical averages used in ACEs prior analyses; Favorable development of $27 million on wholesale property and inland marine businesses. This change was due primarily to the fact that the reported incurred and paid loss activity for the 2007 accident year non catastrophe losses proved lower than anticipated based on historical loss development patterns; Favorable settlements of $15 million on property claims mainly in accident years 2005 2007 as a result of favorable claims experience. A review of all open claims was performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, which concluded that actual experience to date had been more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserves for the open claims; Favorable development of $9 million mainly in accident years 2006 and 2007 on political risk business. This line is subject to review twice a year; during the fourth quarter 2008 review, ACE reflected the limited paid and case incurred loss activity relative to ACEs assumptions and known events by releasing $9 million of IBNR; Favorable development of $29 million on the retail divisions property business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year and a portfolio of diverse global exposures written on an excess basis. Reported loss activity during the 2008 year, has been lower than anticipated in ACEs prior review; Favorable development of $6 million in ACEs Canadian P&C operations short tail lines concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years, covering multiple product lines including property and auto physical damage. Reported loss activity on these product lines was lower than expected; Favorable development of $6 million on the retail divisions commercial marine product lines, primarily with respect to the 2002 2005 accident years. The favorable development was concentrated in the marine hull product line where loss development and or emergence during the 2008 calendar year were lower than expected; and Favorable development of $14 million on the retail divisions recreational marine business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Loss emergence and or development during the 2008 calendar year were lower than historical averages used in ACEs prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. 60 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $140 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $211 million on the 2005 and prior accident years in casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines. Detailed reviews completed in 2009 noted improvements in experience relative to the expectations of the prior detailed analyses, including case specific savings on several significant 2001 2003 bankers professional indemnity claims. Due to the greater level of maturity of these years, increasing weight has been given to the emerged loss experience; Adverse development of $60 million relating to the 2008 accident year for financial lines in connection with exposure to recent financial frauds. This amount was based on a claims review conducted during 2009 of notifications and potential exposure. During this review, we obtained assessments from external legal counsel of the governing law on each potential claim and assessed all other claimant information to arrive at the provision for each case; Adverse development of $10 million for sub prime claims in the 2008 accident year for financial lines. This increase reflects an updated claims review conducted during 2009 of all notified claims; and Adverse development of $10 million driven predominantly by a recent court ruling in a major Continental European country on quality of life damages that is expected to increase casualty claim severities. The increases were focused in the 2006 2008 accident years. Net favorable development of $115 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $48 million in the property and energy lines of business, spread across many geographic regions. Specific case reserve reductions on previously reported claims and lower than anticipated development on other claims led to a release of prior year reserves, mainly in accident years 2006 2008; Favorable development of $35 million in A&H lines following lower than expected loss development across accident years 2003 2008 and arose relatively evenly across geography and distribution channels; Favorable development of $14 million on aviation. In combination with the detailed review in 2009 on all of aviation, case specific reductions on products liability claims, primarily in the 2005 and prior accident years, led to a $19 million reserve release, while adverse airline liability experience on the 2006 2008 accident years led to a $6 million reserve strengthening; and Favorable development of $11 million in the marine line. This reduction was focused in accident years 2006 and prior, where loss development has been less than expected and increased weight was given to experienced based indications for these more mature years. Accident years 2007 and 2008 experienced offsetting movements, with favorable emergence in the retail book offset by case specific increases in the wholesale book. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business including: Favorable development of $159 million from accident years 2005 and prior in financial lines and casualty (primary and excess) portfolios within the international retail operation. Most of the reduction was in accident years 2002 2005 on financial lines, primary casualty, and supported casualty excess. Additional excess releases were made in accident years 2001 and prior. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since the prior years analysis. In addition, ACE has increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident periods mature; Favorable development of $11 million in ACE Global Market financial lines. This was across a number of accident years. The decrease was driven by a reliance on experience based methods which reflected favorable development in 2008 in the quicker developing financial lines of crime and professional indemnity; and Adverse development of $39 million on accident years 2006 2007, mainly in the international retail casualty portfolios following heavier than expected loss emergence. Actual major claim notices received in 2008 caused loss estimates on U.K. excess casualty and Continental Europe financial lines to be increased. Loss projections for the Continental Europe casualty portfolios also increased following adverse attritional claim activity (i.e. excluding catastrophes and large losses) in one country and a large loss in another country. Net favorable development of $173 million on short tail business including: Net favorable development of $113 million in international retail property lines. This activity was focused mainly in accident years 2003 2007 and the U.K. and Continental Europe regions. The releases in accident years 2003 2005 were partially due to case specific reserve reductions driven by new information obtained in 2008. Accident years 2006 2007 61 Table of Contents were driven by favorable emergence relative to the expected development pattern as of the prior year end and reliance on experience based methods for this short tailed line; Favorable development on A&H business in the international retail operation of $44 million. This was mainly from the U.K., Continental Europe, and Latin America regions in accident years 2003 2007. The decrease was driven by a combination of favorable development in 2008 across all segments of this book and greater reliance on experience based methods as the accident years mature; Favorable development of $30 million for the international retail marine book. This was mainly in accident years 2005 2007 and in the Continental Europe and Latin America regions. Given the short tailed nature of this line, experience based methods are the primary basis of carried reserves. Given the favorable loss emergence in 2008, reserves were reduced to reflect this experience; and Adverse development of $14 million due to several major energy losses within the wholesale division, primarily for accident years 2006 and 2007. First notice for one of these losses was received in 2008, while the remainder of the increase arose on previously notified claims that were subject in 2008 to a detailed claims review of individual event circumstances and their associated coverages. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $93 million on long tail business, including: Net favorable prior period development of $93 million principally in treaty years 2003 2005 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice), offset by $13 million adverse development in treaty years 2007 and 2008. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods and away from expectations as these treaty periods mature. The adverse development on the 2007 and 2008 treaty years arose from large loss development in auto (treaty year 2007) and professional liability and D&O (treaty years 2007 and 2008). Net favorable development of $49 million on short tail business, including: Favorable prior period development of $35 million, primarily in treaty years 2005 2007 across several portfolios. The development arose on property lines, including property catastrophe, principally as a result of lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Favorable prior period development of $9 million in treaty years 2004 and prior on the trade credit book. The development arose as a result of a detailed reserve analysis of this line of business and the continued favorable development of case incurred losses relative to the assumptions used to establish the reserves. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $17 million on long tail business across a number of lines and years including: Net favorable prior period development of $30 million principally in treaty years 2003 and 2004 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, workers compensation catastrophe, and medical malpractice), offset by $16 million adverse development in treaty year 2007. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods away from expectations as these treaty periods mature, while the 2007 treaty year development resulted from adverse incurred losses due to large loss development in casualty lines of business. Net favorable development of $142 million on short tail business across a number of lines and years including: Favorable prior period development of $43 million primarily, on treaty years 2006 and prior across several portfolios. The development arose principally on property and the credit & surety line following completion of reserve reviews in 2008. The property portfolio benefited from better than expected claim emergence, while the release in the credit & surety line followed a detailed review of claims and associated recoveries, together with favorable loss emergence; Favorable prior period development of $28 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior across several portfolios, principally property, marine, and energy. This included $16 million reserve release on property exposures and reflected lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Net favorable development of $71 million primarily, on accident years 2002 2006 in the property catastrophe portfolio for claims from prior catastrophe events. The reserve release followed a detailed review during the 2008 year of each event and each cedants coverage terms and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. 62 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. Life Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $3 million in 2009 on short tail A&H business. The reserve release followed a detailed review during 2009 and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Life experienced no net prior period development in 2008 or 2007. Segment Operating Results The discussions that follow include tables that show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life. As discussed previously, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries on April 1, 2008. As such, our segment operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life segment and results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes our retail division ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester which is our wholesale division in the U.S., ACE Bermuda, ACE Private Risk Services, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine). % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 5,641 $ 5,636 $ 5,833 0% (3)% Net premiums earned 5,684 5,679 6,007 0% (5)% Losses and loss expenses 4,013 4,080 4,269 (2)% (4)% Policy acquisition costs 517 562 515 (8)% 9% Administrative expenses 572 536 530 7% 1% Underwriting income $ 582 $ 501 $ 693 16% (28)% Net investment income 1,094 1,095 1,034 (0)% 6% Net realized gains (losses) 10 (709 ) 125 NM NM Interest expense 1 1 0% NM Other (income) expense 36 7 11 414% (36)% Income tax expense 384 315 468 22% (33)% Net income $ 1,265 $ 564 $ 1,373 124% (59)% Loss and loss expense ratio 70.6% 71.8% 71.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.1% 9.9% 8.6% Administrative expense ratio 10.1% 9.4% 8.8% Combined ratio 89.8% 91.1% 88.5% Insurance North American reported stable net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008. We experienced growth in our retail specialty casualty, professional risk business, A&H, and assumed loss portfolio businesses. We also experienced an increase in the annual crop settlement (refer to Crop Insurance). These increases were offset by declines in wholesale professional and casualty lines, as well as lower personal lines, retail property and national accounts production, and unfavorable foreign exchange impact from our Canadian operations. With respect to the personal lines business which we acquired in early 2008, we recorded a one time portfolio assumption of $76 million in net premiums written as part of the acquisition. Excluding the impact of this one time portfolio assumption, the personal lines business reported growth in 2009, compared with 63 Table of Contents 2008. Net premiums written and earned in 2009 included $221 million ($31 million in the first quarter and $95 million in the second and fourth quarters) related to assumed loss portfolio business, compared with Nil in 2008. Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased in 2008, primarily due to lower new and renewal business due to competitive conditions in our retail and wholesale divisions, partially offset by higher crop production and the inclusion of acquired personal lines business. Included in 2007 was a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. The following two tables provide a line of business breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Property and all other $ 1,690 $ 1,576 $ 1,486 7% 6% Casualty 3,734 3,857 4,298 (3)% (10)% Personal accident (A&H) 260 246 223 6% 10% Net premiums earned $ 5,684 $ 5,679 $ 6,007 0% (5)% 2009 2008 2007 % of Total % of Total % of Total Property and all other 30% 28% 25% Casualty 66% 68% 71% Personal accident (A&H) 4% 4% 4% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance North American reported stable net premiums earned for 2009, compared with 2008. We reported increases in the annual crop settlement, retail specialty casualty and professional lines, as well as higher assumed loss portfolio business. These increases were offset by 2009 declines in wholesale property, casualty, and professional risk business, as well as lower retail national accounts and property business, and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. As discussed above, 2009 included $221 million in net premiums earned related to assumed loss portfolio business, compared with Nil in 2008. For 2008, the decrease in net premiums earned was primarily driven by the decrease in financial solutions business, as 2007 included approximately $170 million related to a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program. We also reported lower net premiums earned in our wholesale unit in 2008, primarily due to declines in casualty and inland marine business, which resulted from competitive market conditions. This trend was partially offset by crop business growth, which benefited from generally higher commodity prices for most of 2008. The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 70.6 % 71.8% 71.1% Catastrophe losses (1.0) % (5.4)% (0.3)% Prior period development 3.1 % 6.2% (0.2)% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (1.2)% 0.0% (0.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 71.5 % 72.6% 69.8% Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses were $58 million in 2009, compared with $298 million in 2008, and $16 million in 2007. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were related to an earthquake in Asia and several weather related events in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $179 million in 2009. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, and net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. In addition, in 2009 we experienced a higher ceding commission benefit and we reported increased assumed loss portfolio business, which typically generates minimal acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, due in part to the inclusion of our personal 64 Table of Contents lines business in 2008, which generates a higher acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. The increase in 2008 also reflects higher acquisition costs on crop business, as 2008 included more profitable results on the first quarter final settlement than in 2007, as well as increased crop/hail production for 2008. As discussed above, 2007 included a large loss portfolio transfer which had a favorable impact on the 2007 policy acquisition cost ratio. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher administrative expenses in our retail division to support growth in certain businesses, from both new and existing products, as well as higher spending to support growth in the personal lines business. The administrative expense ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, reflecting the impact of the inclusion of the personal lines business, which generates higher administrative expense ratios than our commercial P&C business, and the reduction in net premiums earned. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous retail insurance operations, the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488, and the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. This segment has four regions of operations: Europe, Asia Pacific, Far East, and Latin America. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. The following results include Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 5,145 $ 5,332 $ 4,568 (4)% 17% Net premiums earned 5,147 5,337 4,623 (4)% 15% Losses and loss expenses 2,597 2,679 2,420 (3)% 11% Policy benefits 4 12 (67)% NM Policy acquisition costs 1,202 1,193 963 1% 24% Administrative expenses 783 793 669 (1)% 19% Underwriting income $ 561 $ 660 $ 571 (15)% 16% Net investment income 479 521 450 (8)% 16% Net realized gains (losses) (20 ) (316 ) (69 ) 94% (358)% Other (income) expense 20 (11 ) (20 ) NM 45% Income tax expense 186 100 183 86% (45)% Net income $ 814 $ 776 $ 789 5% (2)% Loss and loss expense ratio 50.5% 50.4% 52.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 23.3% 22.4% 20.8% Administrative expense ratio 15.2% 14.8% 14.5% Combined ratio 89.0% 87.6% 87.7% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to a strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to major currencies. Refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. On a constant dollar basis, our international retail operations experienced P&C growth in all regions, with the exception of the Far East, and reported increased A&H business in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In addition to the unfavorable foreign exchange impact, our London wholesale business unit reported lower constant dollar production within most product lines. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance, which added $370 million of net premiums written. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums earned increased due to growth in P&C production in our international retail operations. Our London wholesale operations reported a decline in net premiums earned due to lower production. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the added premiums from Combined Insurance, growth in A&H production, and favorable foreign exchange impact. Combined Insurance added $371 million to this segments 2008 net premiums earned. 65 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.9% 14.1% Foreign exchange effect (6.4)% 2.6% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3.5)% 16.7% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 3.2% 12.9% Foreign exchange effect (6.8)% 2.5% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3.6)% 15.4% The following two tables provide a line of business and regional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,787 $ 1,855 $ 1,697 (4)% 9% Casualty 1,420 1,487 1,495 (5)% (1)% Personal accident (A&H) 1,940 1,995 1,431 (3)% 39% Net premiums earned $ 5,147 $ 5,337 $ 4,623 (4)% 15% Region Europe $ 2,348 $ 2,420 $ 1,999 (3)% 21% Asia Pacific 754 791 631 (5)% 25% Far East 451 425 365 6% 16% Latin America 772 778 633 (1)% 23% 4,325 4,414 3,628 (2)% 22% ACE Global Markets 822 923 995 (11)% (7)% Net premiums earned $ 5,147 $ 5,337 $ 4,623 (4)% 15% 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total 2007 % of Total Line of Business Property and all other 34% 35% 37% Casualty 28% 28% 32% Personal accident (A&H) 38% 37% 31% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Region Europe 45% 45% 43% Asia Pacific 15% 15% 14% Far East 9% 8% 8% Latin America 15% 15% 14% 84% 83% 79% ACE Global Markets 16% 17% 21% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% 66 Table of Contents The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.5% 50.4% 52.4% Catastrophe losses (1.0)% (1.6%) (2.1)% Prior period development 5.0% 5.7% 4.1% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.5% 54.5% 54.4% Net catastrophe losses for 2009 were $51 million, compared with $83 million and $94 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to floods and windstorms in Europe. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million, $304 million, and $192 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower net premiums earned in the retail A&H business, without a commensurate reduction in advertising costs, which are generally deferred and amortized over a longer period than the related premium. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to growth in A&H business and the impact of the acquired Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H business. A&H business typically attracts higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year. For 2008, administrative expenses increased primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange impact and the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverage to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 1,038 $ 914 $ 1,197 14% (24)% Net premiums earned 979 1,017 1,299 (4)% (22)% Losses and loss expenses 330 524 664 (37)% (21)% Policy acquisition costs 195 192 248 2% (23)% Administrative expenses 55 56 64 (2)% (13)% Underwriting income $ 399 $ 245 $ 323 63% (24)% Net investment income 278 309 274 (10)% 13% Net realized gains (losses) (17 ) (163 ) 21 90% NM Other (income) expense 2 2 4 0% (50)% Income tax expense 46 30 32 53% (6)% Net income $ 612 $ 359 $ 582 70% (38)% Loss and loss expense ratio 33.7% 51.5% 51.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.9% 18.8% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 5.6% 5.5% 4.9% Combined ratio 59.2% 75.8% 75.1% 67 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance reported increased net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to P&C production growth in U.S., Canada and Bermuda. Net premiums written declined in 2008, compared with 2007, as Global Reinsurance reported intense competition across a majority of its regions of operations, which resulted in significant declines in production. In 2008 and 2007, our clients increased their own risk retention and we adhered to our strict underwriting standards, which meant not renewing several large policies. The following tables provide a line of business breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Line of Business Property and all other $ 262 $ 229 $ 285 14 % (20 )% Casualty 433 494 671 (12 )% (26 )% Property catastrophe 284 294 343 (3 )% (14 )% Net premiums earned $ 979 $ 1,017 $ 1,299 (4 )% (22 )% 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total 2007 % of Total Property and all other 27 % 22 % 22 % Casualty 44 % 49 % 52 % Property catastrophe 29 % 29 % 26 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008 primarily because the prior year included non recurring inward reinstatement premiums related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, we experienced lower production in 2008, which had an adverse impact on net premiums earned in 2009. The decrease in net premiums earned in 2008, compared with 2007, was primarily due to reduced production caused by competitive conditions. The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 33.7 % 51.5 % 51.1 % Catastrophe losses (2.8) % (17.6) % (3.7) % Prior period development 14.5 % 16.0 % 2.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 45.4 % 49.9 % 50.0 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $28 million in 2009, primarily related to various Canadian storms and Hurricane Klaus. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $186 million and $49 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net catastrophe losses in 2008 were mainly due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $159 million and $34 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The decrease in the adjusted loss and loss expense ratio was due to a change in business mix which resulted in a greater proportion of property and other business production, which typically generates lower loss ratios than casualty business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the impact of the prior year inward reinstatement premiums, which generate minimal acquisition costs. Policy acquisition costs decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the increase in inward reinstatement premiums. Administrative expenses were stable for 2009, compared with 2008, as additional expense accruals were offset by lower staffing costs as a result of reduced headcount. In 2008, administrative expenses decreased compared with 2007, primarily due to lower staffing costs. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned, partially offset by reduced staffing costs. 68 Table of Contents Life The Life segment includes ACEs international life operations (ACE Life), ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), and from April 1, 2008, the North American supplemental A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. Combined Insurance contributed 70 percent of net premiums earned for 2009. We assess the performance of our life business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 1,475 $ 1,198 $ 381 23% 214% Net premiums earned 1,430 1,170 368 22% 218% Losses and loss expenses 482 320 51% NM Policy benefits 321 387 168 (17)% 130% Policy acquisition costs 216 188 45 15% 318% Administrative expenses 243 199 50 22% 298% Net investment income 176 142 55 24% 158% Life underwriting income 344 218 160 58% 36% Net realized gains (losses) (15) (532) (164) 97% (224)% Other (income) expense 2 12 1 (83)% 1100% Income tax expense (benefit) 48 30 (8) 60% NM Net income (loss) $ 279 $ (356) $ 3 NM NM The following table provides a line of business breakdown of life underwriting income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009vs. 2008 2008vs. 2007 Life reinsurance $ 154 $ 105 $ 181 47 % (42 )% Life insurance (1 ) (25 ) (21 ) 96 % (19 )% A&H 191 138 38 % NM Life underwriting income $ 344 $ 218 $ 160 58 % 36 % For 2009, the improvement in life underwriting income, compared with 2008, was primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance business for the full year (the prior year included Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and an increase in life reinsurance underwriting income, primarily due to a larger increase in reserves in 2008 compared with 2009, due to unfavorable market movements. While ACE Life continues to incur an underwriting loss due to start up and development costs in its businesses, underwriting income has improved in 2009 compared with 2008. Life underwriting income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the operating results of the acquired Combined Insurance business offset by lower life reinsurance underwriting income primarily due to unfavorable market conditions and related reserve increases in 2008. Net realized gains (losses), which are excluded from life underwriting income, relate primarily to the change in the net fair value of reported GMIB reinsurance liabilities and changes in the fair value of derivatives used to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee portfolio. During 2009, realized gains associated with a decreasing net fair value of reported GMIB reinsurance liabilities were almost entirely offset by a combination of a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and modeling changes. The residual realized loss for 2009 also included the impact of foreign exchange and changes in asset values. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008, which were primarily due to adverse financial market conditions. 69 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities $ 1,985 $ 1,972 $ 1,773 Short term investments 38 109 130 Equity securities 54 93 68 Other 48 (20) 25 Gross investment income 2,125 2,154 1,996 Investment expenses (94) (92) (78) Net investment income $ 2,031 $ 2,062 $ 1,918 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income decreased two percent in 2009, compared with 2008, and increased eight percent in 2008, compared with 2007. The average market yield on fixed maturities was 4.3 percent at December 31, 2009, compared with 6.4 percent and 5.3 percent at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Average market yield represents our net investment income divided by average cost of fixed maturities and other investments and average market value of equity securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments and unfavorable foreign exchange impact during 2009, partially offset by higher average invested assets. Net investment income for 2009, was also adversely impacted because we increased cash and short term investments relative to debt and equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. During the second quarter of 2009, we deployed accumulated cash primarily into high grade fixed income securities and liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. Net investment income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 2007 Average invested assets $ 43,767 $ 41,502 $ 38,798 Net investment income $ 2,031 $ 2,062 $ 1,918 Return on average invested assets 4.6% 5.0% 4.9% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. Refer to Investments, below, for information on fixed maturities we transferred from available for sale to held to maturity during the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income (as discussed below). Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. We adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities related to the recognition and presentation of OTTI as at April 1, 2009 (the adopted provisions). Under the adopted provisions, if we have the intent to sell an impaired fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred, and we are required to record the OTTI in net income. Further, in cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we must evaluate the security to determine the portion of impairment, if any, related to credit losses. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have 70 Table of Contents occurred and any portion of the OTTI related to credit losses must be reflected in net income, while the portion of OTTI related to all other factors is included in other comprehensive income. For fixed maturities, prior to the adopted provisions, ACE was required to record OTTI in net income unless we had the intent and ability to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period. The adopted provisions do not have any impact on the accounting for OTTI for any other type of investment. The cumulative effect of the adopted provisions resulted in a reduction to Accumulated other comprehensive income and an increase to Retained earnings of $242 million as at April 1, 2009. These adjustments reflect the net of tax amount ($305 million pre tax) of OTTI recognized in net income prior to the adoption related to fixed maturities held at the adoption date that have not suffered a credit loss, we do not intend to sell, and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell before the recovery of their amortized cost. Retained earnings and Deferred tax assets as at April 1, 2009, were also reduced by $47 million as a result of an increase in our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, which is a direct effect of the adopted provisions. Specifically, as a result of the reassessment of credit losses required by the adopted provisions, we determined that certain previously impaired fixed maturity securities had suffered credit losses in excess of previously estimated amounts, which may give rise to additional future capital losses for tax purposes. Given the amount of available capital gains against which such additional capital losses could be offset, at the date of adoption, we expected that a portion of capital loss carry forwards would expire unused. Accordingly, we determined that an additional valuation allowance was necessary given that it is more likely than not that a portion of deferred tax assets related to previously impaired fixed income securities would not be realized. Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturity securities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. For impaired fixed maturities, if we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. In cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we evaluate the security to determine if a credit loss has occurred based on a combination of qualitative and quantitative factors including a discounted cash flow model, where necessary. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. Prior to the adopted provisions, when evaluating fixed maturities for OTTI, we principally considered our ability and intent to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period, the issuers financial condition, and our assessment (using available market information such as credit ratings) of the issuers ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis. The factors that we now consider when determining if a credit loss exists related to a fixed maturity security are discussed in Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All significant assumptions used in determining credit losses are subject to change as market conditions evolve. We review all non fixed maturity investments for OTTI based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in an unrealized loss position and the magnitude of the loss position; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions and other issuer specific developments; and our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period. As a general rule, we also consider that equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months are impaired. 71 Table of Contents The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses), as well a breakdown of our OTTI and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (41 ) $ 2,717 $ 2,676 $ (846 ) $ (2,091 ) $ (2,937 ) Equity securities (145 ) 213 68 (349 ) (363 ) (712 ) Other 31 162 193 (55 ) (305 ) (360 ) Subtotal (155 ) 3,092 2,937 (1,250 ) (2,759 ) (4,009 ) Derivatives Equity and fixed income derivatives 68 68 (3 ) (3 ) Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 368 368 (650 ) (650 ) S&P put option and futures (363 ) (363 ) 164 164 Fair value adjustment on other derivatives (93 ) (93 ) 83 83 Subtotal derivatives (20 ) (20 ) (406 ) (406 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) (21 ) (21 ) 23 23 Total gains (losses) $ (196 ) $ 3,092 $ 2,896 $ (1,633 ) $ (2,759 ) $ (4,392 ) 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (234 ) $ 193 $ (41 ) $ (760 ) $ (86 ) $ (846 ) Equity securities (26 ) (119 ) (145 ) (248 ) (101 ) (349 ) Other (137 ) 168 31 (56 ) 1 (55 ) Total investment portfolio gains (losses) $ (397 ) $ 242 $ (155 ) $ (1,064 ) $ (186 ) $ (1,250 ) Our net realized losses in 2009, included write downs of $397 million as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value of certain securities was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $1.1 billion and $214 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2009 related to fixed maturities were primarily due to securities with below investment grade credit ratings and intent to sell securities in an unrealized loss position. Impairments related to all other investments were primarily due to duration and severity of decline below cost. Included in other net realized gains (losses) is a realized gain of $193 million on the fourth quarter sale of our interest in Verisk Analytics, Inc., a holding company that includes Insurance Services Office Inc. (ISO), offset by a realized loss on AGO and private equities. At December 31, 2009, our investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $414 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold our fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $145 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to recognize the associated deferred tax asset related to these fixed income investments as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized. In addition, management decreased the valuation allowance by $47 million during 2009, as a result of improvement in the unrealized gains and losses in the overall U.S. portfolio. We engage in a securities lending program which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in short term funds of high credit quality with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. Certain investments in the money market mutual funds purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in an unrealized loss of $42 million. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value was temporary. 72 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned entities $ 39 $ (52 ) $ 39 Noncontrolling interest expense 3 11 7 Federal excise and capital taxes 16 16 18 Other 27 (14 ) 17 Other (income) expense $ 85 $ (39 ) $ 81 Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of AGO prior to the June 2009 issuance and Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited, which is included in equity in net income of partially owned entities. As discussed previously, prior to AGOs June 2009 issuance, we included our investment in AGO in Investments in partially owned insurance companies and reflected our portion of its net income (loss) under equity in net income of partially owned entities. Effective with the June 2009 issuance, we now account for the investment as an available for sale equity security. Refer to Overview Investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. Other (income) expense also includes certain federal excise and capital taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in publicly traded, investment grade fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA (with one half invested in AAA securities), as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.7 years at December 31, 2009, compared with 3.6 years at December 31, 2008. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.6 billion at December 31, 2009. We experienced net unrealized gains of $3.1 billion in 2009 primarily due to tightening of credit spreads, particularly during the second and third quarters of 2009. In addition, greater global demand driven purchases of fixed income investments and a greater demand for risk based assets contributed to the unrealized gains. The fixed maturities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009, were comprised of both investment grade and below investment grade securities for which fair value declined primarily due to widening credit spreads since the date of purchase. As part of our fixed income diversification strategy, we decided to hold to maturity certain commercial mortgage backed securities that have shorter term durations. Because we have the intent to hold such securities to maturity, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $704 million was made during 2009 from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. The $4 million unrealized depreciation at the date of the transfer continues to be reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the remaining life of the securities as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount. Our Other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $54 million at December 31, 2009, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Our investment portfolio is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors, and issuers. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio and we provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer, and our Treasurer. We also have well established, strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. 73 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 39,525 $ 38,985 $ 31,155 $ 33,109 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,561 3,481 2,865 2,860 Short term investments 1,667 1,667 3,350 3,350 44,753 44,133 37,370 39,319 Equity securities 467 398 988 1,132 Other investments 1,375 1,258 1,362 1,368 Total investments $ 46,595 $ 45,789 $ 39,720 $ 41,819 The fair value of our total investments increased $6.9 billion during 2009. The increase was primarily due to unrealized appreciation and the investing of operating cash flows. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Market Value Percentageof Total Market Value Percentageof Total Treasury $ 2,068 5% $ 1,018 3% Agency 2,698 6% 2,027 5% Corporate 13,166 29% 8,744 23% Mortgage backed securities 11,311 25% 10,986 29% Asset backed securities 371 1% 709 2% Municipal 2,300 5% 2,124 6% Non U.S. 11,172 25% 8,412 23% Short term investments 1,667 4% 3,350 9% Total $ 44,753 100% $ 37,370 100% AAA $ 22,884 51% $ 22,960 61% AA 4,021 9% 3,374 9% A 7,461 17% 5,497 15% BBB 4,910 11% 3,388 9% BB 2,866 6% 1,119 3% B 2,029 5% 934 3% Other 582 1% 98 0% Total $ 44,753 100% $ 37,370 100% 74 Table of Contents The table below summarizes our largest exposures to corporate bonds by market value and S&P credit rating at December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Rating General Electric Co $ 454 AA+ JP Morgan Chase & Co 401 A+ Bank of America Corp 387 A Wells Fargo & Co 317 AA Citigroup Inc 275 A Verizon Communications Inc 267 A Morgan Stanley 244 A AT&T INC 236 A Goldman Sachs Group Inc 230 A HSBC Holdings Plc 176 AA Comcast Corp 173 BBB+ Credit Suisse Group 151 A Barclays PLC 126 A+ ConocoPhillips 125 A Telecom Italia SpA 125 BBB Lloyds Banking Group Plc 121 A Time Warner Cable Inc 118 BBB XTO Energy Inc 112 BBB Banco Santander SA 109 AA American Express Co 106 BBB+ Pfizer Inc 103 AA News Corp Ltd 91 BBB+ Deutsche Telekom AG 88 BBB+ Dominion Resources Inc/VA 86 A Roche Holding AG 84 BBB+ Total $ 4,705 75 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2009, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Market Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 515 $ $ $ $ $ 515 FNMA 5,298 5,298 FHLMC 1,996 1,996 Total agency RMBS 7,809 7,809 Non agency RMBS 508 43 59 74 796 1,480 Total RMBS 8,317 43 59 74 796 9,289 Commercial mortgage backed 1,728 54 234 6 2,022 Total mortgage backed securities $ 10,045 $ 97 $ 293 $ 80 $ 796 $ 11,311 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 20 $ 4 $ 2 $ 1 $ 27 $ 54 Credit cards 18 5 3 2 28 Autos 127 16 14 3 160 Other 125 4 129 Total asset backed securities $ 290 $ 25 $ 16 $ 4 $ 36 $ 371 Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed GNMA $ 502 $ $ $ $ $ 502 FNMA 5,162 5,162 FHLMC 1,924 1,924 Total agency RMBS 7,588 7,588 Non agency RMBS 593 60 69 94 1,048 1,864 Total RMBS 8,181 60 69 94 1,048 9,452 Commercial mortgage backed 1,707 57 276 6 2,046 Total mortgage backed securities $ 9,888 $ 117 $ 345 $ 100 $ 1,048 $ 11,498 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 24 $ 6 $ 3 $ 1 $ 50 $ 84 Credit cards 18 5 3 2 28 Autos 125 16 13 3 157 Other 124 1 7 132 Total asset backed securities $ 291 $ 27 $ 16 $ 5 $ 62 $ 401 76 Table of Contents Our mortgage backed securities are rated predominantly AAA and comprise approximately 25 percent of our fixed income portfolio. This compares with a 40 percent mortgage backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market at the end of 2009. The minimum rating for our initial purchases of mortgage and asset backed securities is AAA. Agency RMBS represent securities which have been issued by Federal agencies (Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) with implied or explicit government guarantees. These represent 84 percent of our total RMBS portfolio. With respect to our non agency RMBS, these are backed by prime collateral and are broadly diversified over 260,000 loans. This portfolios loan to value ratio is approximately 70 percent with an average Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score of 730. With this conservative loan to value ratio and subordinated collateral of 13 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 20 percent (the historical cumulative foreclosure rates is eight percent for prime mortgages) and real estate values would have to fall 30 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. Within the portfolio of prime non agency RMBS are $146 million of holdings classified as alternative A paper (ALT A). These ALT A holdings are broadly diversified with over 60 percent issued prior to 2006, possess an average FICO score of 712, and have a relatively conservative loan to value ratio of 72 percent. With subordinated collateral of 21 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 32 percent and real estate values would have to fall more than 27 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The comparable cumulative market foreclosure rate was approximately 30 percent at the end of 2009. New investments in ALT A were suspended in the first quarter of 2008. Our commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified over 23,000 loans, and 73 percent of the portfolio was issued before 2006. The average loan to value ratio is approximately 67 percent with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.6 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 27 percent. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 42 percent and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than 10 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The market delinquency rate at the end of 2009 was nine percent. We suspended new investments in CMBS in the first quarter of 2009. The sub prime asset backed securities are broadly diversified in over 86,000 loans with an average loan to value ratio of approximately 81 percent and an average FICO score of 600. With subordinated collateral of 30 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 35 percent and real estate values would have to fall more than 18 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate is 32 percent. ACE suspended new investments in sub prime backed securities in the third quarter of 2007. Our auto loan asset backed securities are rated predominantly AAA with a short duration of approximately six months and average subordinated collateral of 20 percent. Annual default rates would have to rise to 17 times the level at the end of 2009 of about 2.4 percent before principal is impaired. New investments in credit card and auto backed securities were suspended in the first quarter of 2008. Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio We invest in below investment grade securities through investment portfolios managed by external managers, specifically dedicated to this asset class. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. At December 31, 2009, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately 13 percent of our fixed income portfolio. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 500 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $72 million. We manage high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. The allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. Our high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (approximately 0.1 percent of the total investment portfolio). We monitor position limits daily through an internal compliance system. Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps and collateralized mortgage obligations) are not permitted in the high yield portfolio. 77 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance $ 12,745 $ 12,935 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 850 982 Net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses $ 13,595 $ 13,917 Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits $ 298 $ 259 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decline in net reinsurance recoverable in 2009 was primarily related to a higher level of crop loss payments on the 2008 crop year, as well as NICO payments related to Brandywine. Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits increased primarily due to a loss portfolio cession of Combined Insurances long term care business. Asbestos and environmental (A&E) and other run off liabilities Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Reserving considerations For asbestos, ACE faces claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party at multiple sites. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2009 2008 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,198 1,169 Newly reported 54 75 Closed or otherwise disposed 229 46 Open at end of year 1,023 1,198 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 4,704 5,132 Newly reported 196 250 Closed or otherwise disposed 1,529 678 Open at end of year 3,371 4,704 Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly higher in 2009, compared with 2008, due to a review of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files; therefore, the files were closed. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 Survival Ratios 2008 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 7.1 8.1 6.0 5.3 8.3 9.6 8.3 18.2 Environmental 2.9 4.4 3.1 4.0 3.5 5.3 2.7 4.5 Total 6.2 6.9 5.5 5.0 7.2 8.2 6.8 11.2 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2008 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves, and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims, and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year gross survival ratio for asbestos decreased from 2008 due to a number of large settlements in 2009. This has resulted in a decline in the three year gross ratio as well, though to a lesser degree than seen in the 1 year ratio. The 1 year net asbestos ratio of 5.3 declined significantly from the prior 1 year ratio because of 2008s unusually high level of ceded reinsurance associated with asbestos payments in 2008. Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world. The following modeled loss information reflects ACEs in force portfolio at October 1, 2009, and reinsurance program at January 1, 2010. The table below shows our modeled annual aggregate probable maximum loss (PML), net of reinsurance, for 100 year and 250 year return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes. The table also shows corresponding pre tax industry losses for each of the return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes. For example, according to the model, there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.128 billion (or six percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2009). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $136.665 billion. U.S. Hurricanes California Earthquakes Modeled Annual Aggregate Net PML % of Total Shareholders Equity % of Total Shareholders Equity (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) ACE Industry ACE Industry 1 in 100 $ 1,128 6 % $ 136,665 $ 731 4 % $ 36,456 1 in 250 $ 1,439 7 % $ 197,856 $ 895 5 % $ 57,486 The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 79 Table of Contents Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2010, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage in various layers that provide $450 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. Each layer of this core program has a single additional limit available for restatement post loss event on the same terms as the original limit. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this coverage, we have $86 million part of $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $575 million. While this coverage attaches at a level within our core program, any recoveries from this program shall be for ACEs sole benefit and effectively reduce the net loss under the retention. In addition, the catastrophe bonds also provide $86 million of U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. In addition, we purchased another $14 million of the same earthquake coverage as the catastrophe bonds to provide a full $100 million of earthquake coverage excess of approximately $961 million. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Due to exposure reductions and model change, the attachment for the catastrophe bonds declined from $712 million to $575 million for the $86 million of wind protection and from $1.11 billion to approximately $960 million for earthquake protection. The catastrophe bonds program expires in June 2012. While our modeled United States catastrophe exposure declined significantly in 2009, ACE did not reduce the catastrophe limits purchased at January 1, 2010, by the same amount. By way of comparison, the 2010 program has potentially approximately $37 million less in coverage for first event U.S. hurricane protection and $85 million less in first event California earthquake protection than the expiring program. We consider our retention to be approximately $500 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other catastrophe programs purchased by individual business units. These other catastrophe programs have the potential to reduce our effective retention below $500 million. Second, for losses arising outside of the U.S. and effective July 1, 2009, our core program is made up of two layers. Our first reinsurance layer remains $50 million in excess of a $50 million retention with two reinstatements. This layer was 67.75 percent placed. Our second layer provides $150 million in protection in excess of $100 million with one reinstatement. This layer was 100 percent placed. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million in excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million in excess of $250 million for Europe. The Asia Pacific top layer has one free reinstatement and one at 100 percent of original premium. With respect to the top layer for Europe, the maximum restatement is one additional full limit. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. Finally, we purchased an additional treaty that provides $50 million of protection across the top of this catastrophe program with one reinstatement. However, this top layer may also be exhausted by certain risk losses so it is not certain that it will be available to us in an event. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layers for Asia Pacific and Europe provide the same amount of coverage except for the $16.1 million retained in the $50 million excess of $50 million first layer. Crop Insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and conduct that business through Rain and Hail L.L.C., an MGA. We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance book comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover revenue shortfalls or production losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance 80 Table of Contents protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the RMA released a first draft of a proposed new SRA, which was last negotiated in 2005 and expires in its current form on June 30, 2010. The terms of the proposed new SRA are still being negotiated. However, this SRA change applies to the 2011 Crop year and therefore, we expect no impact from a new agreement on 2010 financial results. It is still unclear what the impact, if any, there will be on our business beyond 2010. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarter and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. Premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. We regularly receive reports from our MGA relating to the previous crop year(s), resulting in adjustments to previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses and profit share commissions. The adjustments are typically more significant in the first quarter of the year (annual first quarter settlement), compared with other periods. Political Risk, Trade Credit, and Structured Trade Credit Political risk insurance is a specialized coverage that provides clients with protection against unexpected, catastrophic political or macroeconomic events, primarily in developing markets. We participate in this market through our wholly owned subsidiary Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd. (Sovereign), and through a unit of our London based ACE Global Markets operation. Sovereign is one of the worlds leading underwriters of political risk insurance and has a global portfolio spread across more than 100 countries. Its clients include financial institutions, national export credit agencies, leading multilateral agencies, and multinational corporations. ACE Global Markets writes political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit business out of underwriting offices in London, Hamburg, New York, and Singapore. Our political risk insurance provides protection to commercial lenders against defaults on cross border loans, insulates investors against equity losses, and protects exporters against defaults on contracts. Commercial lenders, our largest client segment, are covered for missed scheduled loan repayments due to acts of confiscation, expropriation or nationalization by the host government; currency inconvertibility or exchange transfer restrictions, or war or other acts of political violence. In addition, in the case of loans to government owned entities or loans that have a government guarantee, political risk policies cover scheduled payments against risks of nonpayment or non honoring of government guarantees. Equity investors and corporations receive similar coverage to that of lenders, except they are protected against financial losses, inability to repatriate dividends, and physical damage to their operations caused by covered events. Our export contracts protection provides coverage for both exporters and their financing banks against the risk of contract frustration due to government actions, including non payment by government entities. ACE Global Markets trade credit and structured trade credit businesses cover losses due to insolvency, protracted default, and political risk perils including export and license cancellation. It provides trade credit coverage to larger companies that have sophisticated credit risk management systems, with exposure to multiple customers and that have the ability to self insure losses up to a certain level through excess of loss coverage. Its structured trade credit business provides coverage to finance banks, exporters, and trading companies, with exposure to trade related financing instruments (i.e., LOCs or pre export finance). We have implemented structural features in our policies in order to control potential losses within the political risk, trade credit, and structured credit businesses. These include basic loss sharing features that include co insurance and deductibles, and in the case of trade credit, the use of non qualifying losses that drop smaller exposures deemed too difficult to assess. Ultimate loss severity is also limited by using waiting periods to enable the insurer and insured to agree on recovery strategies, and the subrogation of the rights of the lender/exporter to the insurer following a claim. We pay claims over the original loan payment schedule, rather than in a lump sum in order to provide insureds and the insurer additional time to remedy problems 81 Table of Contents and work towards full recoveries. It is important to note that political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit policies are named peril conditional contracts, not financial guarantees, and claims are only paid after conditions and warranties are fulfilled. Political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit insurance do not cover currency devaluations, bond defaults, any form of derivatives, movements in overseas equity markets, transactions deemed illegal, or situations where corruption or misrepresentation has occurred, or debt that is not legally enforceable. In addition to assessing and mitigating potential exposure on a policy by policy basis, we also have specific risk management measures in place to manage overall exposure and risk. These measures include placing country and individual transaction limits based on country risk and credit ratings, combined single loss limits on multi country policies, the use of reinsurance protection, and regular modeling and stress testing of the portfolio. Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, ACE Limiteds cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted over the past three years, which included a widespread recession. These conditions and their consequences may affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties, and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the availability of reinsurance protection, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, and our investment performance. However, we believe that our present cash flows from operations, investing activities, and financing activities are sufficient to fund our current working capital and debt obligation needs. We anticipate that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) should be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2010. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. Refer to Credit Facilities below. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Our existing credit facilities have remaining terms expiring between 2012 and 2014. However, we may be required to replace credit sources in a difficult market should one of our existing credit providers experience financial difficulty. There has also been recent consolidation in the banking industry, which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing any of our credit facilities. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such duration tends to be longer. Given the current low interest rate environment, at December 31, 2009, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.7 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.1 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables, or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is 82 Table of Contents assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investment, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2009, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payments of dividends declared on our Common Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. ACE Tempest Life Re paid dividends of $400 million in 2009 and $1.2 billion in 2008. ACE Bermuda paid dividends of $502 million in 2008. A portion of the dividends received in 2008 were used in connection with our April 1, 2008, acquisition of Combined Insurance. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. The U.S. insurance subsidiaries of ACE INA may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2009 or 2008. The debt issued by ACE INA is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate of future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for 2009 and 2008. The operating cash flows reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $3.3 billion in 2009, compared with $4.1 billion in 2008. The largest contributors to the decline are net claim payments and collateral requirements. Net claim payments were $6.9 billion in 2009, compared with $6.3 billion in 2008. The collateral outflow was $397 million in 2009, compared with an inflow of $304 million in 2008. We made higher than typical net claim payments in 2009 in connection with prior year catastrophes and other individual large property related losses. The collateral outflow consisted of both the return of collateral we had received from counterparties on hedging positions as the market has improved, and collateral requirements related to new hedge positions established to protect us from the market moving lower. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $3.2 billion in 2009, compared with $4.1 billion in 2008. Net investing activities for 2009 were related primarily to net purchases of fixed maturities. For 2008 net investing activities were related primarily to net purchases and maturities on the fixed maturities portfolio and the acquisition of Combined Insurance for $2.56 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $321 million in 2009, compared with net cash flows from financing activities of $314 million in 2008. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2009, included net proceeds from the issuance, in June 2009, of $500 million in long term debt, net repayment of debt and reverse repurchase agreements of $466 million, and dividends paid on our Common Shares of $388 million. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2008, included $1.2 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt. This was partially offset by $575 million of net cash flows used for financing activities relating to the redemption of our Preferred Shares, and dividends paid on our Common and Preferred Shares. 83 Table of Contents Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have agreements with a bank provider which implemented two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. We also, from time to time, utilize reverse repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. Refer to Short term debt below. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Short term debt $ 161 $ 471 Long term debt 3,158 2,806 Total debt 3,319 3,277 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Total shareholders equity 19,667 14,446 Total capitalization $ 23,295 $ 18,032 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 14.2% 18.2% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 15.6% 19.9% Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the significant increase in shareholders equity, combined with stable levels of debt and trust preferred securities. We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 Total shareholders equity, beginning of year $ 14,446 Net income 2,549 Dividends declared on Common Shares (402 ) Change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments, net of tax 2,611 Cumulative translation, net of tax 401 Income tax valuation allowance on the adoption of new OTTI standard (47 ) Pension liability (31 ) Other movements, net 140 Total shareholders equity, end of year $ 19,667 84 Table of Contents Total shareholders equity increased $5.2 billion in 2009, primarily due to net income of $2.5 billion, and the change in net unrealized appreciation on investments of $2.6 billion. The change in net unrealized appreciation on investments was primarily due to the tightening of credit spreads. The cumulative translation increased as major currencies strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Short term Debt At December 31, 2009, short term debt consisted of a five year term loan due in December 2010. Though none are outstanding at December 31, 2009, we had executed reverse repurchase agreements with certain counterparties under which we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a future date for a predetermined price. These included agreements both executed and settled in 2008 totaling $1 billion as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition. Short term debt at December 31, 2008, included $250 million in reverse repurchase agreements. All reverse repurchase agreements were settled during the second quarter of 2009. In September 2009, we repaid the ACE INA nine month term loan ($16 million), and in December 2009, we repaid the ACE INA subordinated notes ($200 million). Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $3.2 billion is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In June 2009, our subsidiary, ACE INA Holdings Inc., issued $500 million of 5.9 percent senior notes due June 2019. The notes are guaranteed by ACE Limited. The net proceeds from the issue of the senior notes were used to repay amounts owed to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements as noted above, and were also used to refinance debt maturities and for general corporate purposes. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Common Shares Our Common Shares had a par value of CHF 31.88 each at December 31, 2009. For the foreseeable future, subject to shareholder approval, we expect to make distributions to shareholders as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital rather than through dividends. At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, the Board proposed and shareholders approved the payment of a dividend by the Company in the form of a distribution to shareholders (the Dividend Approval) through a Swiss franc par value reduction pursuant to a formula that has the effect of making the U.S. dollar value of distributions more consistent. The Dividend Approval provides for an annual par value reduction of CHF 1.36 (the Base Annual Dividend), equal to $1.24 per share at the time of the Dividend Approval, payable in four installments prior to the 2010 Annual General Meeting; provided that each of the Swiss franc installments will be adjusted pursuant to the formula so that the actual Swiss franc par value reduction amount for each installment will equal $0.31, subject to an aggregate upward adjustment (the Dividend Cap) for the four installments of 50 percent of the Base Annual Dividend (i.e. CHF 0.68). Application of the formula will mean that the Swiss franc amount of each installment will be determined at the approximate time of distribution, while the U.S. dollar value of the installment will remain $0.31 unless and until the Dividend Cap is reached. A par value reduction that would otherwise exceed the Dividend Cap will be reduced to equal the Swiss franc amount remaining available under the Dividend Cap, and the U.S. dollar amount distributed will be the then applicable U.S. dollar equivalent of that Swiss franc amount. We paid the third of the four installments of $0.31 per Common Share on January 11, 2010, and in connection with this dividend, the par value per share was reduced by CHF 0.32, based on the USD/CHF rate published on December 14, 2009. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends (other than by reductions in par value) may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The board of directors of a 85 Table of Contents Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with Swiss statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Swiss Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. As noted above, for the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2009. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 332 $ 50 $ 84 $ 25 $ 173 Purchase obligations 525 114 193 132 86 Limited partnerships funding commitments 695 285 338 60 12 Operating leases 347 68 108 86 85 Short term debt 161 161 Long term debt 3,158 50 950 2,158 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,264 218 417 366 1,263 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 7,791 896 1,190 1,619 4,086 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,783 8,997 10,521 5,760 12,505 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 3,694 272 427 321 2,674 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 49,268 $ 10,165 $ 12,138 $ 7,700 $ 19,265 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits: The liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, was $155 million at December 31, 2009. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. At December 31, 2009 we had $20 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. 86 Table of Contents Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $281 million and contract holder deposit funds of $51 million at December 31, 2009. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. 87 Table of Contents Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide collateral, which can be in the form of LOCs. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and to provide underwriting capacity as funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine(1t) Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facility ACE Limited(2) $ 500 $ 54 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Operational LOC Facility ACE Limited 1,000 554 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facility ACE Limited(3) 484 412 Dec. 2013 Unsecured Operational LOC Facility ACE Limited 500 500 Sept. 2014 Total $ 2,484 $ 1,520 (1)Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2)May also be used for LOCs. (3)Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, statutory liabilities reported by variable annuity guarantee reinsurance clients, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business, and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2009. These covenants include: (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $12 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2009, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $12.6 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $19.0 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.142 to 1, which is below the maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.35 to 1 as described in (ii) above. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. 88 Table of Contents Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, and interest. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings of ACE fall to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2009, a one notch downgrade of our S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through writing the GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to volatility in the equity and credit markets, as well as interest rates and the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed income securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income portfolio is classified as available for sale. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $8.9 billion and $10.3 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). Investment derivative instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore, have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. 89 Table of Contents The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2009. Our policies to address these risks in 2009 were not materially different from 2008. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 44,753 $ 37,370 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,623 $ 1,329 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.6% 3.6% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Although our debt and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,905 $ 3,334 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 241 $ 179 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 6.2% 5.3% Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. During the second quarter of 2009, we liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Fair value of equity securities $ 467 $ 988 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 47 $ 99 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 90 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,895 $ 2,318 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 19.8% 16.0% Pre tax impact on shareholders equity of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 336 $ 192 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the benefit reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. The benefit reserves are calculated in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts (Topic 944). Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative for accounting purposes. The FVL established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the benefit reserves. Changes in the FVL, net of associated changes in the calculated benefit reserves, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views its variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small, at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. At December 31, 2009, management established benefit reserves based on the benefit ratio calculated using assumptions reflecting managements best estimate of the future performance of the variable annuity line of business. Managements best estimate reflected a judgment that the equity markets will exhibit sub par growth over the next several years. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the benefit reserves. The benefit reserves are based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk, the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Management regularly examines both quantitative and qualitative analysis and for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, determined that no change to the benefit ratio was warranted. The benefit ratio used to establish the benefit reserves at December 31, 2009, has averaged less than 3/4 standard deviation from the calculated benefit ratios, averaging the periodic results from the time the benefit ratio was changed during the first quarter of 2009 until December 31, 2009. Topic 944 requires ACE to regularly evaluate estimates used and adjust the liability balance if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. ACE evaluates its estimates regularly and management uses judgment to determine the extent to which the assumptions underlying the benefit ratio calculation used to establish benefit reserves should be adjusted. The benefit ratio will be calculated based on managements expectation for the short term and long term performance of the variable annuity guarantee liability. Managements quantitative analysis includes a review of the differential between the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date and the benefit ratio calculated on subsequent dates. The differential is measured in terms of the standard deviation of the distribution of benefit ratios (reflecting 1,000 stochastic scenarios) calculated on subsequent dates. As an example, if, on average, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date falls within 1/2 a standard deviation of the mean of the distribution of benefit ratios calculated periodically since the most recent change in benefit ratio, management may elect not to adjust the benefit ratio used to generate the benefit reserves at the quarter end valuation date. 91 Table of Contents Further, if due to changes in equity and credit market conditions, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date differs from the mean of the periodically calculated distribution of benefit ratios by less than 1 standard deviation, management will consider current market conditions when determining its expectations of future payout obligations, particularly as those market conditions relate to shorter term payout obligations. Finally, if due to changes in equity and credit market conditions, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date differs from the mean of the periodically calculated distribution of benefit ratios by more than 1 standard deviation for a sustained and prolonged period of time, management will give substantial weight to prevailing market conditions when determining its expectations of future payout obligations. As an example, based on managements current expectations as of the publication of this document, all else being equal, the S&P 500 index would need to remain below a level of 700 for a prolonged period of time in order for management to give substantial weight to current market conditions. The benefit reserves and FVL calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk, and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The tables below show the sensitivity, at December 31, 2009, of the benefit reserves and FVL associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes only those instruments owned at the reporting date, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% 30% 40% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 57 $ 16 $ (41 ) $ (120 ) $ (225 ) $ (362) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 215 121 15 (111 ) (255 ) (389 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (111 ) (7 ) 97 203 311 421 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 161 $ 130 $ 71 $ (28 ) $ (169 ) $ (330 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 42 $ $(60) $ (143 ) $ (254 ) $ (400 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 122 (152 ) (313 ) (478 ) (637 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (104 ) 105 212 321 431 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 60 $ $ (107) $ (244) $ (411) $ (606 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 12 $ (34 ) $ (100 ) $ (192 ) $ (315 ) $ (476 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL (64 ) (228 ) (405 ) (597 ) (780 ) (933 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (97 ) 8 114 222 331 442 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (149 ) $ (254 ) $ (391 ) $ (567 ) $ (764 ) $ (967 ) Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables A rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in FVL 48 (65 ) (46 ) 27 (14 ) 13 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value 3 (4 ) Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 48 $ (65 ) $ (46 ) $ 27 $ (11 ) $ 9 Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions Mortality Lapses Annuitization (in millions of U.S. dollars) +10% 10% +25% 25% +25% 25% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (21 ) $ 22 $ 28 $ (35 ) $ (11 ) $ 12 (Increase)/decrease in FVL 9 (8 ) 89 (127 ) (60 ) 49 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (12 ) $ 14 $ 117 $ (162 ) $ (71 ) $ 61 The above tables assume benefit reserves and FVL using the benefit ratio calculated at December 31, 2009. Additionally, the above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift 92 Table of Contents in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets, we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve, we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in A rated credit spreads (A rated credit spreads are a proxy for ACEs own credit spreads), impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2009, market levels. The above sensitivities are not directly additive because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the benefit reserves and FVL is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the benefit reserves and the FVL as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. Additionally, actual sensitivity of our benefit reserves, FVL, and net income may differ from those disclosed in the tables above due to differences between short term market movements and management judgment regarding the long term assumptions implicit in our benefit ratio. 93 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries. We serve the property and casualty (P&C) insurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health and life insurance to individuals in select countries. At December 31, 2009, ACE had total assets of $78 billion and shareholders equity of $19.7 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. During the second quarter of 2009, we liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Redomestication to Zurich, Switzerland In July 2008, we transferred our domicile from the Cayman Islands to Zurich, Switzerland, our new jurisdiction of incorporation (the Continuation). In connection with the Continuation, we changed the currency in which the par value of our Ordinary Shares was stated from U.S. dollars to Swiss francs. Upon the effectiveness of the Continuation, our Ordinary Shares became Common Shares. All Common Shares are registered shares with a current par value of CHF 31.88 each. Notwithstanding the change of the currency in which the par value of Common Shares is stated, we continue to use U.S. dollars as our reporting currency for preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. For the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. Refer to Liquidity for more information. The Combined Insurance Acquisition On April 1, 2008, ACE acquired all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance Company of America (Combined Insurance) and certain of its subsidiaries from Aon Corporation for $2.56 billion. Combined Insurance is an underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers 35 Table of Contents and small businesses in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. ACE recorded the Combined Insurance acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. Our consolidated operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. Investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO), a Bermuda based holding company, provides, through its operating subsidiaries, credit enhancement products to the public finance, structured finance, and mortgage markets. On July 1, 2009, AGO acquired Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd. from Dexia Holdings Inc., a subsidiary of Dexia S.A. The purchase price included approximately $546 million in cash and approximately 22.3 million AGO common shares, according to AGOs public filings. AGO financed the cash portion of the purchase price partly through a June 2009 issuance of 38.5 million common shares before the exercise of any overallotment option (June 2009 issuance), according to AGOs public filings. Prior to the June 2009 issuance, ACE included its investment in AGO in Investments in partially owned insurance companies using the equity method of accounting. Effective with the June 2009 issuance, ACE was deemed to no longer exert significant influence over AGO for accounting purposes and accounts for the investment in AGO as an available for sale equity security. ACE accounted for AGOs June 2009 issuance, and resulting dilutive effect, as if we had sold a proportionate share of the investment. ACE recognized a realized loss of $57 million related to AGOs dilutive common share issuance. During the fourth quarter of 2009, ACE further reduced its ownership in AGO to approximately seven percent. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of ACEs investment in AGO was $283 million and $56 million of unrealized gain on this investment was reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income. During the first quarter of 2010, we again reduced our interest in AGO and our current share of ownership is approximately three percent. Market Conditions The improvement in industry capital during 2009 as a result of greater financial markets stability and lower catastrophe losses has resulted in more competitive market conditions. From a risk reward perspective, we believe prices to be inadequate from an underwriting perspective in a number of lines of business and therefore industry profitability is under pressure. At ACE, we continue efforts to maintain strict underwriting discipline in order to ensure profitability currently and in the future. We are focused on continuing to build our capabilities expanding our product offerings, our underwriting and geographic presence, and special initiatives centered on certain customer segments and our distribution. We believe our financial strength, global presence and broad product offering, and our technical underwriting capability continue to attract business to our company. Policies submitted to us for quote were significantly higher in 2009, compared with 2008, as existing and prospective customers sought ACEs financial strength and underwriting capability. As a result, the number of accounts we bound were substantially higher in 2009, however because of our underwriting discipline, we wrote less new business. We are emphasizing renewal retention rates. Policy terms and conditions were relatively stable for the business we wrote, although there were increased requests for terms and conditions we found unacceptable. Despite favorable foreign exchange movements in the fourth quarter of 2009, our revenues were adversely impacted by a strong U.S. dollar for the year. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums written increased three percent in our P&C business in 2009, primarily driven by growth in our North American and international retail franchises. These businesses benefited from our increased local and global presence which allowed us to take advantage of competitors weakness, despite the recessions impact on pricing and demand for coverage. We reported growth in lines where we believe more than price matters our relative financial strength compared to competitors continued to produce business gains, and we have also benefited from growth in those areas of the market that have experienced underwriting losses and prices have risen adequately thus creating opportunity for ACE. Our Global Reinsurance business grew in 2009, with increases in both long tail and short tail lines, and benefited particularly from business written in the first half of the year when pricing was more favorable. With respect to market conditions at the January 1, 2010, renewal period, we observed a reduction in client demand and more supply as reinsurers were generally well capitalized as a result of the recovery of the financial markets and partly as a result of a lack of major catastrophes in 2009. As such, pricing decreased but continued to be sufficiently profitable, particularly for U.S. peak exposure. Pricing in non catastrophe areas or lines of business continued to decrease moderately, creating greater pressure on already stressed profit margins. We wrote modestly less business during the January 1 renewal period in 2009, compared with 2008. Our A&H business continues to be impacted by recession, although it stabilized in the fourth quarter on a constant dollar basis. The underlying long term trends of a growing middle class in Latin America and Asia, where we have substantial presence and capability, will continue to favor this business. We believe that the impact of recession on our A&H business is transient and we expect it to diminish as we progress through 2010. During 2009, we focused on increasing our A&H distribution capabilities, particularly in the retail travel and corporate customer segments, without neglecting our direct response distribution network, in order for our product portfolio to remain balanced. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; the valuation of our investment portfolio and assessment of other than temporary impairments (OTTI); the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) ; and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses Overview and key data As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but are unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations on claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). Loss reserves also include an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2009, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.8 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $25 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry net reserves of $76 million, net of discount. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 Losses and loss expenses incurred 11,141 3,719 7,422 10,944 3,341 7,603 Losses and loss expenses paid (11,093 ) (4,145 ) (6,948 ) (9,899 ) (3,572 ) (6,327 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 559 236 323 (1,367 ) (387 ) (980 ) Losses and loss expenses acquired 386 33 353 Balance, end of year $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 (1) Net of provision for uncollectible reinsurance 37 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 17,307 $ 6,664 $ 10,643 $ 16,583 $ 6,539 $ 10,044 IBNR reserves 20,476 6,081 14,395 20,593 6,396 14,197 Total $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 The following table segregates loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2009 and 2008. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,149 $ 1,600 $ 1,549 $ 3,180 $ 1,367 $ 1,813 Loss expenses 260 81 179 264 92 172 IBNR reserves 2,028 815 1,213 2,456 1,084 1,372 Subtotal 5,437 2,496 2,941 5,900 2,543 3,357 Casualty Case reserves 9,506 3,177 6,329 8,700 3,178 5,522 Loss expenses 3,773 1,661 2,112 3,871 1,779 2,092 IBNR reserves 17,777 5,110 12,667 17,455 5,144 12,311 Subtotal 31,056 9,948 21,108 30,026 10,101 19,925 A&H Case reserves 588 144 444 536 121 415 Loss expenses 31 1 30 32 2 30 IBNR reserves 671 156 515 682 168 514 Subtotal 1,290 301 989 1,250 291 959 Total Case reserves 13,243 4,921 8,322 12,416 4,666 7,750 Loss expenses 4,064 1,743 2,321 4,167 1,873 2,294 IBNR reserves 20,476 6,081 14,395 20,593 6,396 14,197 Total $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and 38 Table of Contents where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is, by definition, limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may include the use and interpretation of various standard actuarial reserving methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns, and industry data as needed. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary, qualitative, and subjective factors. Among some of these factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, the legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluations that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods but are based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact. Standard actuarial reserving methods The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made, where appropriate, to how consideration in method selection impacted 2009 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data are aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred accident year or report year, for example) and annual or quarterly development periods. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year is initially established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used as the basis for the actuarial central estimate for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data 39 Table of Contents is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for relatively new product lines that have limited historical data or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as they often have a sufficient history and volume of claims experience to be credible. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Determining managements best estimate Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line and establish an actuarial central estimate at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuaries, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and unit senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and its senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; historical variability of actual loss emergence compared with expected loss emergence; perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate ranges of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Such ranges are generally not a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date 40 Table of Contents whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.3 billion and represents six percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2009. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1, for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Consolidated Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail and long tail business Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting and development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2009 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2009. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2009 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and expected future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more subjective relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset the impact of recent favorable loss development. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2009 calendar year arose from origin years 2004 2008. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life segments experienced $105 million, $115 million, $49 million, and $3 million of favorable prior period development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2004 2008 origin years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2008 origin years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2007 origin years princi 41 Table of Contents pally in response to the latest reported loss data, rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to short tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2009, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to report and settle/close. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is sometimes too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can alter the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2009 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2009 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. Recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations. While we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible to be fully reflected in our booked ultimate losses for immature years, we have been giving increasing weight to emerging experience as origin years mature and the loss emergence gains credibility. 42 Table of Contents Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2009 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2009 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to fully reflect in our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. Our booked reserves for origin years 2007 2009 include reserves for what we believe to be our exposure to claims related to the credit crunch and recent financial frauds (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature accident years, typically 2005 and prior, we relied upon paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. The prior period development in 2009 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of origin years in all segments. While there were a number of reasons for the 2009 development, the movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2009 that differed notably from the expected loss emergence and where such deviations were deemed significant enough to warrant revising the projections for certain product lines. The nature of the changes to booked ultimate losses, and the associated impact on the prior origin years, varies by product line. For example, in Insurance North American, the changes to recorded estimates for foreign casualty products lines and ACE Financial Solutions business principally related to actual loss emergence that was lower than anticipated. This resulted in $42 million and $33 million of favorable development, respectively. Insurance North American also experienced $52 million of favorable development in national accounts loss sensitive business that resulted from a reduction in the estimates of retrospectively rated premiums and therefore resulted in corresponding decreases to premium based estimates of ultimate losses. There was also $47 million of unfavorable development in Insurance North American Brandywine operations for accident years prior to 1999 in assumed reinsurance pools that resulted from the receipt of updated information on pool reserves, the adverse impact of recent activity on a litigated claim, and a 2009 audit finding. There was $211 million of favorable development in Insurance Overseas General for accident years 2005 and prior, primarily in casualty and financial lines. This development was principally due to actual loss experience that was lower than expected and an increase in the weight given experience based methods as these years mature. There was $93 million of favorable development in long tail lines in Global Reinsurance mainly on treaty years 2003 2005. This development was principally due to actual loss experience that was lower than expected and an increase in the weight given experience based methods as these years mature. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to long tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2009, refer to Prior Period Development. Sensitivity to underlying assumptions While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2009, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by four portfolios that represent the majority of our first dollar workers compensation exposure requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the reported loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would 43 Table of Contents cause a change of approximately $100 million, either positive or negative, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1 billion. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $325 million and gross limits of up to $150 million) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $125 million and gross limits of up to $50 million). Due to the layer of exposure covered, the expected frequency for this book is very low. As a result of the low frequency/high severity nature of the book, a small difference in the actual vs. expected claim frequency, either positive or negative, could result in a material change to the projected ultimate loss if such change in claim frequency was related to a policy where close to maximum limits were deployed. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2001 2007 by approximately $221 million. This movement is relative to recorded net IBNR reserves of approximately $1.4 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected ultimate net losses and loss expenses. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $256 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2009, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $788 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2008, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.5 billion, consisting of $836 million of case reserves and $1.7 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and 44 Table of Contents The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2009, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $768 million, compared with the $788 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid loss and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2009, ACE conducted its annual internal, ground up review of its consolidated A&E liabilities as at December 31, 2008. As a result of the internal review, the Company increased its net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $44 million (net of reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company (NICO)), while the gross loss reserves increased by $198 million. In addition, the Company decreased gross loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $64 million, while the net loss reserves did not change. Our A&E reserves are not discounted for GAAP reporting and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. For more information refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities and to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, endowment products, and annuities. In accordance with GAAP, we establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved 45 Table of Contents actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract meaning we use our original assumptions throughout the life of the policy and do not subsequently modify them unless we deem the reserves to be inadequate. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represented the fair value of the future profits of the in force contracts. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to arrive at the present value of the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively policy acquisition costs) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. Policy acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, including investment income. If such costs are unrecoverable, they are expensed in the period this determination is made. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002. These contracts principally provided severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and were accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the NICO contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively 46 Table of Contents few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $424 million of net premiums earned in 2009, comprised of $299 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $125 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. These have been deemed to have met risk transfer requirements. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 47 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Lossesand LossExpenses Recoverables(net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 10,762 $ 9,735 $ 259 Reinsurers not rated 460 386 136 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 191 181 112 Captives 1,686 390 30 Other structured settlements and pools 1,078 1,078 45 Total $ 14,177 $ 11,770 $ 582 At December 31, 2009, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2009, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $167 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairments (OTTI) Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value, refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income (as discussed below). We adopted provisions included in ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities, related to the recognition and presentation of OTTI as at April 1, 2009. Under these provisions, if we have the intent to sell an impaired fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred, and we are required to record the OTTI in net income. Further, in cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we must evaluate the security to determine the portion of the impairment, if any, related to credit losses. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred and any portion of the OTTI related to credit losses must be reflected in net income while the portion of OTTI related to all other factors is included in other comprehensive income. For fixed maturities held to maturity, OTTI recognized in other comprehensive income is accreted from accumulated other comprehensive income to the amortized cost of the fixed maturity prospectively over the remaining term of the securities. These newly adopted provisions do not have any impact on the accounting for OTTI for any other type of investment. Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturity securities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. For impaired fixed maturities, if we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. In cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we evaluate the security to determine if a credit loss has occurred based on a combination of qualitative and quantitative factors including a discounted cash flow model, where necessary. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. Prior to the adopted provisions when evaluating fixed maturities for OTTI, we principally considered our ability and intent to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period, the issuers financial condition, and our assessment (using available market information such as credit ratings) of the issuers ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis. The factors that we now consider when determining if a credit loss exists related to a fixed maturity security are discussed in Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All significant assumptions used in determining credit losses are subject to change as market conditions evolve. We review all non fixed maturity investments for OTTI based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in a loss position and the magnitude of the loss position; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions and other issuer specific developments; and our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period. As a general rule, we also consider that equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months are impaired. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in OTTI that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred tax asset was $1.2 billion. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred 49 Table of Contents tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2009, the valuation allowance of $34 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Fair value measurements We partially adopted the provisions (specific provisions described below) included in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, on January 1, 2008. We fully adopted the provisions effective January 1, 2009. These provisions define fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establishes a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with the GAAP definition of fair value as an exit price. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all applicable investments have been valued in accordance with GAAP valuation principles. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. At December 31, 2009, our Level 3 assets represented four percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and two percent of our total assets. Our Level 3 liabilities represented 13 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and one percent of our total liabilities at December 31, 2009. During 2009, we transferred $55 million out of our Level 3 assets. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the valuation measurements used for our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy (Levels 1, 2, and 3) as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB) derivatives Under life reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of GMIBs associated with variable annuity (VA) contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and benefit reserves is reflected in Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in Net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying annuities through lapses, annuitization, or death). At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will 50 Table of Contents net to zero (excluding cumulative hedge gains or losses) because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices and other assumptions on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. Refer to Note 2 j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the policyholder will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus, benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and the level of interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Based on our quarterly reserve review, we increased our assumed GMIB annuitization rates for policies with deep in the money guarantees. In the aggregate, this change along with certain refinements of our model, increased our fair value liability by $28 million, which decreased net income accordingly. During 2009, we recorded $368 million of realized gains for GMIB reinsurance, primarily due to a rising equity market and increased interest rate levels, partially offset by narrowing A rated credit spreads (A rated credit spreads are a proxy for ACEs own credit spreads) and the receipt of premium (which increases the fair value). This excludes realized losses of $363 million during 2009 on derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for a breakdown of the realized gains on GMIB reinsurance and the realized losses on the derivatives for 2009 and 2008. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All variable annuity guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract but some examples of typical contract provisions include: annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured account or guaranteed value, for GMDBs and GMIBs; and annual annuitization rate limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible account or guaranteed value, for GMIBs. A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $47 million and $280 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparties, on a daily basis. 51 Table of Contents We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. ACE Tempest Life Re did not quote on new or renewal variable annuity transactions in 2009 or 2008, and the aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5 10 percent annually. Note that GMIB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first annuitization eligibility Percent ofliving accountvalues 2010 and prior &lt;1% 2011 &lt;1% 2012 7% 2013 25% 2014 19% 2015 5% 2016 6% 2017 17% 2018 and after 20% Total 100% The following table provides the historical cash flows under these policies for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 109 $ 122 Less paid claims 151 68 Net $ (42 ) $ 54 Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premium $ 161 $ 149 Less paid claims 4 Net $ 157 $ 149 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 270 $ 271 Less paid claims 155 68 Net $ 115 $ 203 The amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. Death Benefits (GMDB) For premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring GMDBs, at current market levels we expect approximately $130 million of claims and $102 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months. Living Benefits (includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from variable annuity contracts reinsuring predominantly GMIBs and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB) are collectively known as Living Benefits. Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. The vast majority of these policyholders begin to become eligible in 2013. At current market levels we expect approximately $1 million of claims and $151 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months. Capital At December 31, 2009, the capital required to support the variable annuity guaranty business was approximately $550 million. All else equal, any additional capital required as a result of a falling equity market would be approximately offset by the increase in the fair value of currently held hedge assets. 52 Table of Contents Collateral In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit, ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, in an amount sufficient for them to obtain statutory reserve credit. On December 31, 2009, a new statutory reserve guideline adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners took effect in the U.S. called Actuarial Guideline 43 that governs statutory reserve calculation for variable annuity guarantees. In many cases this resulted in an increase to ceded statutory reserves from our U.S. domiciled clients and the collateral ACE Tempest Life Re holds on their behalf. ACE Tempest Life Re has access to both letter of credit capacity and trustable assets that are sufficient (based on current estimates) to meet the funding requirements. The timing and amount of the calculation of the collateral varies by client according to the particulars of the reinsurance treaty and the statutory reserve guidelines of the clients state of domicile. Claim limits Approximately 64 percent of the GMDB guaranteed value has an annual claim limit expressed as two percent of the aggregate total account value reinsured. The remainder of the GMDB guaranteed value is covered under treaties with limits calculated on other bases either annual, aggregate, or at an individual policy level. The majority of this remainder has an annual limit calculated as a percentage of the total guaranteed value reinsured, with the percentage varying by contract from 0.22 percent to 1.8 percent. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired, was $3.8 billion at December 31, 2009. The ACE INA and Combined Insurance acquisitions represent the majority of this balance. During 2009, our goodwill balance was increased by approximately five percent, primarily due to foreign exchange movements at the legal entity level. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment evaluation involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if a potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured and recorded. We performed our impairment testing for 2009 and determined that no impairment was required. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the North American and international divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. To estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value models apply multiples of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model allocates our market capitalization to each reporting unit. We must assess whether the current fair value of our reporting units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our reporting units, including: short term and long term growth rates; estimated cost of equity and changes in long term risk free interest rates; selection of appropriate earnings and book value market multiples to be utilized in various multiple approaches; and risk premium applied in determining discount rate for calculating net present value of estimated future cash flows. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. 53 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 Our consolidated operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 13,299 $ 13,080 $ 11,979 2% 9% Net premiums earned 13,240 13,203 12,297 0% 7% Net investment income 2,031 2,062 1,918 (2)% 8% Net realized gains (losses) (196 ) (1,633 ) (61 ) 88% NM Total revenues $ 15,075 $ 13,632 $ 14,154 11% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 7,422 7,603 7,351 (2)% 3% Policy benefits 325 399 168 (19)% 138% Policy acquisition costs 2,130 2,135 1,771 (0)% 21% Administrative expenses 1,811 1,737 1,455 4% 19% Interest expense 225 230 175 (2)% 31% Other (income) expense 85 (39 ) 81 NM NM Total expenses $ 11,998 $ 12,065 $ 11,001 (1)% 10% Income before income tax 3,077 1,567 3,153 96% (50)% Income tax expense 528 370 575 43% (36)% Net income $ 2,549 $ 1,197 $ 2,578 113% (54)% NM not meaningful Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year (the prior year period included the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and increased assumed loss portfolio business. We also reported increased retained premium from P&C reinsurance, increased retail specialty casualty production and benefitted from the annual first quarter crop settlement (refer to Crop Insurance), partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impact, and lower production in wholesale P&C, retail national accounts, property, and personal lines. With respect to the personal lines business which we acquired in early 2008, we recorded a one time portfolio assumption of $76 million in net premiums written as part of the acquisition. Excluding the impact of this one time portfolio assumption, the personal lines business reported growth in 2009, compared with 2008. Refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. Net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the acquired Combined Insurance, which added $1.1 billion. Excluding the impact of acquired businesses, net premiums written declined two percent in 2008, reflecting the competitive conditions we experienced across most lines of business and regions of operation, as well as recession related exposure reductions. The year ended December 31, 2007, included a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned for 2009 were stable compared with 2008, as declines in wholesale P&C, and retail national accounts and property business, as well as an unfavorable foreign exchange impact were offset by growth in assumed loss portfolio business, crop business, and retail specialty casualty and included Combined Insurances results for the full period. The increase in 2008 net premiums earned, compared with 2007, was primarily related to the inclusion of Combined Insurance which added $1.1 billion. As discussed above, the one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program added approximately $170 million to net premiums earned in 2007. 54 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 4.8% 8.3% Foreign exchange effect (3.1)% 0.9% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.7% 9.2% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 3.5% 6.5% Foreign exchange effect (3.2)% 0.9% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 0.3% 7.4% The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 % Change 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Property and all other $ 4,023 $ 3,954 $ 3,811 2% 4 % Casualty 5,587 5,838 6,464 (4)% (10 )% Subtotal 9,610 9,792 10,275 (2)% (5 )% Personal accident (A&H) 3,103 2,949 1,654 5% 78 % Life 527 462 368 14% 26 % Net premiums earned $ 13,240 $ 13,203 $ 12,297 0% 7 % 2009 % of total 2008 % of total 2007 % of total Property and all other 30% 30% 31% Casualty 42% 44% 53% Subtotal 72% 74% 84% Personal accident (A&H) 24% 22% 13% Life 4% 4% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. Net investment income was also adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements in 2009. Net investment income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting loss. 55 Table of Contents The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 16.2% 16.2% 14.5% Administrative expense ratio 13.3% 12.8% 11.8% Combined ratio 88.3% 89.6% 87.9% The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% Catastrophe losses (1.2)% (4.7)% (1.3)% Prior period development 4.9% 6.8% 1.8% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.8)% 0.0% (0.5)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 61.7% 62.7% 61.6% We recorded $137 million in net catastrophe losses in 2009, compared with $567 million and $159 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to an earthquake in Asia, floods in Europe, several weather related events in the U.S., and a European windstorm. For 2008, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and floods in the U.S. We experienced $579 million of net favorable prior period development in 2009. This compares with $814 million of net favorable prior period development in 2008, and $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007. The prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable in 2009, compared with 2008, as increases in our Combined Insurance operations were offset by more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. Administrative expenses increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance for the full year and costs associated with new product expansion in our domestic retail operation and in our personal lines business. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased significantly in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the growth in A&H business, including the Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H. A&H business typically requires higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. Our administrative expenses increased in 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to the acquired businesses. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 17 percent in 2009, compared with 24 percent and 18 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. For 2008, our effective tax rate was adversely impacted by a higher proportion of our earnings being generated in higher tax paying jurisdictions due to the impact of catastrophe losses experienced in lower tax paying jurisdictions. Net realized losses were significant in 2008, and were primarily related to widening credit spreads in our high quality corporate bond portfolio and changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance reported at fair value. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $579 million on net unpaid losses and loss expenses during 2009 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates 56 Table of Contents recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. With respect to ACEs crop business, ACE regularly receives reports from its MGA relating to the previous crop year(s) in subsequent calendar quarters and this typically results in adjustments to the previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission. Commencing in the third quarter of 2009, prior period development for ACEs crop business includes adjustments to both crop losses and loss expenses, and the related crop profit share commission. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment by claim tail attribute are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability, while short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of net unpaidreserves* 2009 Insurance North American $ (74 ) $ (105 ) $ (179 ) 1.2 % Insurance Overseas General (140 ) (115 ) (255 ) 4.2 % Global Reinsurance (93 ) (49 ) (142 ) 5.6 % Life (3 ) (3 ) 1.4 % Total $ (307 ) $ (272 ) $ (579 ) 2.4 % 2008 ` Insurance North American $ (131 ) $ (220 ) $ (351 ) 2.4 % Insurance Overseas General (131 ) (173 ) (304 ) 4.7 % Global Reinsurance (17 ) (142 ) (159 ) 5.9 % Total $ (279 ) $ (535 ) $ (814 ) 3.5 % * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expenses reserves. Insurance North American Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $179 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $74 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $42 million in our foreign casualty product lines where both paid and reported incurred loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity was favorable relative to the expected activity implied in our prior review, particularly for workers compensation and general liability coverages. One portfolio typically includes high volume, low average premium business covering overseas exposures with shorter development patterns than typically found for larger commercial risks. For this portfolio, the favorable development was concentrated in the 2006 accident year. The other portfolios represent large, risk management accounts. For these exposures, the favorable development was primarily associated with the 2004 and 2005 accident years; Adverse development totaling $13 million on excess liability coverage in report year 2005 in response to a court decision made during 2009; Adverse development of $19 million in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios. The development affected accident periods in the late 1980s and the 2007 and 2008 accident years. The deterioration on the older accident periods was due to higher than expected incurred claims activity in 2009. The development on 2007 and 2008 was largely a function of higher allocated claims expenses than forecast. A possible trend in higher allocated costs was first observed in mid 2008. A study of these costs was completed early in 2009, leading to an increase in our estimates for these accident years; Favorable development of $15 million in our commercial surety business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Our estimates of ultimate losses anticipated higher than historical levels of incurred loss development due to the impact of the recession. However, the actual loss activity for the 2007 accident year in calendar year 2008 was in line with historical levels despite the downturn in the economy; Favorable development of $52 million in our national accounts loss sensitive accounts unit impacting the 2005 2007 accident years. This development represents the reduction in premium based loss reserves that resulted from a $96 million reduction in our estimate of retrospectively rated premiums for the 2004 2007 policy years due to a refinement in 57 Table of Contents our estimation process. The change in estimate of retrospectively rated premiums was triggered by a ground up, policy level review conducted by ACE during 2009. The policy level review relies on more disaggregated policy data than our prior estimation process; Favorable development of $15 million in our medical risk business unit with the favorable activity concentrated in the 2004 and 2005 report years for hospital professional liability business. Our portfolio includes both primary and excess facilities business written primarily on a claims made basis. Loss activity in 2009 for this business was lower than expected. In addition, all open claims for the 2005 and prior report years were reviewed in 2009, and updated using the most recent available information. This review led to a revision in our estimate of ultimate losses for the portfolio; Favorable development of $33 million in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit concentrated in policies issued in the 2004 2006 years. This favorable development was a function of a continuation of lower than expected loss development, first observed in 2008, on a small number of large risks with predominantly workers compensation exposure; Favorable development of $10 million in our management liability product line, associated with the 2004 and prior accident years. A large portion of this favorable development was the result of savings on a large claims settlement in 2009; Favorable development of $17 million for long tail lines in our programs division, primarily attributable to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Reported and paid loss experience in the general liability and auto liability sub lines continued to develop lower than expected in our prior review and our pricing assumptions; and Adverse development of $80 million in our Brandywine operations, impacting accident years 1999 and prior comprising several components. First, adverse development of $47 million in assumed reinsurance pools which was the combined impact from receipt of updated information on pool reserves, adverse impact of recent activity on a litigated claim and a 2009 audit finding that assumed losses payable had not been registered, thereby causing an understatement of required reserves in prior quarters. Second, adverse development of $18 million on assumed reinsurance reserves following review of the adequacy of certain retrocessional reinsurance protections. Third, adverse development of $28 million on workers compensation business due to higher than expected case incurred loss development since the last review. Finally, favorable development of $13 million on asbestos and pollution reserves, primarily due to higher than expected ceded reinsurance billings on paid losses. Net favorable development of $105 million on short tail business, including: Adverse development of $3 million on property business comprising two main components. First, there was adverse development of $25 million in our retail property and energy portfolios, primarily impacting the 2005 2008 accident years as a result of adverse development on known claims and our share of a reinsurance pool. Second, there was favorable development of $22 million in another unit, principally arising on the 1997 and 2005 2008 accident years from favorable development on known claims and a lack of emergence of newly reported claims; Favorable development of $24 million on political risk business relating to the 2006 2008 accident years as a result of a lack of claims emergence and favorable development in the 2005 accident year related to closure of a claim without payment; Favorable development of $13 million in our crop/hail business associated with recording the most recent bordereaux, primarily for the 2008 crop year; Favorable development of $17 million in our Canadian A&H business affecting the 2008 and prior accident years. This resulted from a reconciliation of statutory and GAAP ledger balances completed in 2009; Favorable development of $17 million for short tail lines in our programs division, primarily attributable to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Reported and paid loss experience in the general liability, property, auto liability, and auto physical damage sub lines continued to develop lower than expected in our prior review and relative to our pricing assumptions; Favorable development of $8 million in our recreational marine portfolio, primarily affecting accident years 2004 2008. Reported loss activity for these accident years was lower than expected during 2009; and Favorable development of $29 million across a number of short tail lines in a number of accident years for a variety of reasons. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business, including: Adverse development of $15 million in ACEs national accounts workers compensation portfolios comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $47 million arising on accident year 2007, due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents. The majority of ACEs exposure for these perils falls under ACEs national 58 Table of Contents accounts high deductible and excess product lines. ACE evaluates this exposure on an annual basis, after the accident year has closed, allowing for the late reporting or identification of significant losses and for an initial assessment of the accident year. ACEs review in 2008 of potential 2007 events, coupled with ACEs initial assessment of the accident year has led to a decrease in ACEs estimate of the required provision for these claims. Second, adverse development of $62 million relating to 2003 and prior accident years. This development was the direct result of reported loss activity greater than expected in ACEs prior review. During 2008 a targeted open case reserve review was conducted by ACEs claims staff which resulted in a number of material case reserve increases that were not anticipated in ACEs prior estimates of ultimate loss; Favorable development of $32 million in ACEs national accounts commercial auto and general liability product lines comprised two items of significance. First, favorable development of $19 million was mainly from accident years 2003 and prior for exposures written on an excess basis. The combination of continued lower than expected reported incurred loss activity for the 2001 2003 accident years as well as increased weighting on loss development reserving methods, as these years mature, has driven the majority of the improvement in projected ultimate losses. Second, favorable development of $13 million relating to the 1999 2002 accident years, primarily on a block of run off programs comprising general liability, auto liability, and workers compensation product coverages. This favorable development was a result of lower than expected paid and case incurred development observed in the most recent reserve review which resulted in lower selected ultimate loss projections; Adverse development of $10 million related to higher than expected loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity on reported claims in ACEs small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios, primarily affecting the 2005 and 2006 accident years. Case activity on these portfolios through calendar year 2007 and into 2008 was higher than expectations and ACE adjusted its estimates of ultimate loss accordingly. Prior estimates relied heavily on industry benchmarks including average severity trends; Adverse development of $29 million on a portfolio of primary casualty business written by the wholesale division and impacting the 2002 2004 accident years. This adverse activity was a function of higher than expected loss and allocated expenses on business that has a heavy concentration of exposure to commercial contractors. In the past few quarters, both paid and incurred development patterns for the tail period beyond 60 months have developed worse than industry benchmark factors which formed the basis for ACEs projections in prior analyses; Favorable development of $19 million on excess casualty and umbrella business in ACEs wholesale unit, primarily impacting accident years 2002 2004. This favorable activity was a function of a shift in weighting from expected loss based reserving methods to direct projections of ultimate losses as this long tailed exposure begins to mature for these accident periods; Adverse development of $10 million on a professional lines claim in accident year 2001 as a result of a review in 2008, that identified significant erosion below ACEs attachment; Adverse development of $29 million on ACEs portfolio of Defense Base Acts workers compensation coverage (covers employees of U.S. government contractors overseas). ACE experienced higher than expected incurred loss development since the last reserve study concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years. The majority of the development was related to increases in case reserves on known claims for these accident years, and recorded in 2008. These increases were judged to be more than claim acceleration and resulted in significant increases in the 2006 and 2007 accident year ultimate loss projections given the immaturity of the impacted accident years and long tail nature of the portfolio; Favorable development of $46 million on ACEs medical risk business, primarily in its hospital professional liability portfolio for the 2004 and 2005 accident years. Coverage is provided on a claims made basis and both paid and case incurred loss activity since ACEs last review have been favorable relative to expected. As these accident periods have matured, ACE has gradually increased the weight applied to experience based methods, including the Bornhuetter Ferguson method, and placed less weight on the initial expected loss ratio method; Favorable development of $34 million in ACEs management and professional liability product lines. This development was the net result of favorable development totaling $117 million associated with the 2005 and prior accident years and adverse development of $81 million with respect to the 2007 accident year. The favorable prior period development was a function of a review of all open claims in ACEs retail management liability operation and a reassessment of the potential ultimate exposure on these claims. This reassessment of exposure and the maturation of these accident periods supported increasing the weight given to experience based loss projections. The adverse development relating to the 2007 accident year is due solely to a claim by claim review of exposures impacted by the ongoing credit crisis including but not limited to sub prime mortgages. These claim file reviews occurred during the 2008 calendar year as facts and circumstances surrounding these exposures continued to emerge and develop; 59 Table of Contents Favorable development of $51 million on long tail exposures in ACEs Canadian P&C operations, principally arising in the 2005 accident year on excess casualty, umbrella, and D&O product lines. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since ACEs prior analysis. In addition, ACE has increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident years mature; Favorable development of $68 million for accident years 2003 2006 due to the expiration of a large, multi year insurance contract written in the ACE Financial Solutions business unit. This contract included a significant per occurrence limit excess of a high attachment point. Coverage was provided on an integrated occurrence basis requiring notice of an event during the policy period. ACE completed a detailed claims audit in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to an adjustment to the booked loss and loss expense reserves; Adverse development of $51 million on run off casualty reserves, including asbestos and environmental, in the Brandywine and ACE Westchester business units following completion of ACEs internal ground up review of asbestos and environmental liabilities for the most significant policyholders identified to date. This adverse development arose from several sources; the principal one was as a result of increased defense costs in litigating traditional tort defenses on asbestos cases; and Favorable development of $16 million relating to the completion of account reconciliations that identified duplicate loss processing, over processed coinsurance, and unregistered reinsurance recoveries. Net favorable development of $220 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $116 million on the wholesale divisions crop/hail business relating to the recording of the 2007 crop year bordereau received in 2008; Adverse development totaling $33 million relating to increases in ACEs estimates of losses for the 2005 hurricanes, primarily in wholesale property ($23 million) and ACE Financial Services International (ACE FSI) ($10 million). The wholesale property development was due primarily to settlement on several excess policies above ACEs prior case reserves, resulting in higher estimates of ultimate loss. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. The ACE FSI development was due to adverse development on a retrocessional program following a review of the programs claim circumstances; Favorable development of $13 million relating to lower than expected paid claims for the 2007 accident year on a run off portfolio of warranty business, mostly automobile extended warranty contracts. The change was driven primarily by recognition of recent paid claim experience, as a percentage of earned premiums, which has been lower than the historical averages used in ACEs prior analyses; Favorable development of $27 million on wholesale property and inland marine businesses. This change was due primarily to the fact that the reported incurred and paid loss activity for the 2007 accident year non catastrophe losses proved lower than anticipated based on historical loss development patterns; Favorable settlements of $15 million on property claims mainly in accident years 2005 2007 as a result of favorable claims experience. A review of all open claims was performed in the fourth quarter of 2008, which concluded that actual experience to date had been more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserves for the open claims; Favorable development of $9 million mainly in accident years 2006 and 2007 on political risk business. This line is subject to review twice a year; during the fourth quarter 2008 review, ACE reflected the limited paid and case incurred loss activity relative to ACEs assumptions and known events by releasing $9 million of IBNR; Favorable development of $29 million on the retail divisions property business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year and a portfolio of diverse global exposures written on an excess basis. Reported loss activity during the 2008 year, has been lower than anticipated in ACEs prior review; Favorable development of $6 million in ACEs Canadian P&C operations short tail lines concentrated in the 2006 and 2007 accident years, covering multiple product lines including property and auto physical damage. Reported loss activity on these product lines was lower than expected; Favorable development of $6 million on the retail divisions commercial marine product lines, primarily with respect to the 2002 2005 accident years. The favorable development was concentrated in the marine hull product line where loss development and or emergence during the 2008 calendar year were lower than expected; and Favorable development of $14 million on the retail divisions recreational marine business, primarily associated with the 2007 accident year. Loss emergence and or development during the 2008 calendar year were lower than historical averages used in ACEs prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. 60 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $140 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $211 million on the 2005 and prior accident years in casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines. Detailed reviews completed in 2009 noted improvements in experience relative to the expectations of the prior detailed analyses, including case specific savings on several significant 2001 2003 bankers professional indemnity claims. Due to the greater level of maturity of these years, increasing weight has been given to the emerged loss experience; Adverse development of $60 million relating to the 2008 accident year for financial lines in connection with exposure to recent financial frauds. This amount was based on a claims review conducted during 2009 of notifications and potential exposure. During this review, we obtained assessments from external legal counsel of the governing law on each potential claim and assessed all other claimant information to arrive at the provision for each case; Adverse development of $10 million for sub prime claims in the 2008 accident year for financial lines. This increase reflects an updated claims review conducted during 2009 of all notified claims; and Adverse development of $10 million driven predominantly by a recent court ruling in a major Continental European country on quality of life damages that is expected to increase casualty claim severities. The increases were focused in the 2006 2008 accident years. Net favorable development of $115 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $48 million in the property and energy lines of business, spread across many geographic regions. Specific case reserve reductions on previously reported claims and lower than anticipated development on other claims led to a release of prior year reserves, mainly in accident years 2006 2008; Favorable development of $35 million in A&H lines following lower than expected loss development across accident years 2003 2008 and arose relatively evenly across geography and distribution channels; Favorable development of $14 million on aviation. In combination with the detailed review in 2009 on all of aviation, case specific reductions on products liability claims, primarily in the 2005 and prior accident years, led to a $19 million reserve release, while adverse airline liability experience on the 2006 2008 accident years led to a $6 million reserve strengthening; and Favorable development of $11 million in the marine line. This reduction was focused in accident years 2006 and prior, where loss development has been less than expected and increased weight was given to experienced based indications for these more mature years. Accident years 2007 and 2008 experienced offsetting movements, with favorable emergence in the retail book offset by case specific increases in the wholesale book. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $131 million on long tail business including: Favorable development of $159 million from accident years 2005 and prior in financial lines and casualty (primary and excess) portfolios within the international retail operation. Most of the reduction was in accident years 2002 2005 on financial lines, primary casualty, and supported casualty excess. Additional excess releases were made in accident years 2001 and prior. Actual paid and case incurred loss activity has been lower than expected since the prior years analysis. In addition, ACE has increased the weighting given to experience based methods from the initial expected loss ratio method as these accident periods mature; Favorable development of $11 million in ACE Global Market financial lines. This was across a number of accident years. The decrease was driven by a reliance on experience based methods which reflected favorable development in 2008 in the quicker developing financial lines of crime and professional indemnity; and Adverse development of $39 million on accident years 2006 2007, mainly in the international retail casualty portfolios following heavier than expected loss emergence. Actual major claim notices received in 2008 caused loss estimates on U.K. excess casualty and Continental Europe financial lines to be increased. Loss projections for the Continental Europe casualty portfolios also increased following adverse attritional claim activity (i.e. excluding catastrophes and large losses) in one country and a large loss in another country. Net favorable development of $173 million on short tail business including: Net favorable development of $113 million in international retail property lines. This activity was focused mainly in accident years 2003 2007 and the U.K. and Continental Europe regions. The releases in accident years 2003 2005 were partially due to case specific reserve reductions driven by new information obtained in 2008. Accident years 2006 2007 61 Table of Contents were driven by favorable emergence relative to the expected development pattern as of the prior year end and reliance on experience based methods for this short tailed line; Favorable development on A&H business in the international retail operation of $44 million. This was mainly from the U.K., Continental Europe, and Latin America regions in accident years 2003 2007. The decrease was driven by a combination of favorable development in 2008 across all segments of this book and greater reliance on experience based methods as the accident years mature; Favorable development of $30 million for the international retail marine book. This was mainly in accident years 2005 2007 and in the Continental Europe and Latin America regions. Given the short tailed nature of this line, experience based methods are the primary basis of carried reserves. Given the favorable loss emergence in 2008, reserves were reduced to reflect this experience; and Adverse development of $14 million due to several major energy losses within the wholesale division, primarily for accident years 2006 and 2007. First notice for one of these losses was received in 2008, while the remainder of the increase arose on previously notified claims that were subject in 2008 to a detailed claims review of individual event circumstances and their associated coverages. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $93 million on long tail business, including: Net favorable prior period development of $93 million principally in treaty years 2003 2005 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice), offset by $13 million adverse development in treaty years 2007 and 2008. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods and away from expectations as these treaty periods mature. The adverse development on the 2007 and 2008 treaty years arose from large loss development in auto (treaty year 2007) and professional liability and D&O (treaty years 2007 and 2008). Net favorable development of $49 million on short tail business, including: Favorable prior period development of $35 million, primarily in treaty years 2005 2007 across several portfolios. The development arose on property lines, including property catastrophe, principally as a result of lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Favorable prior period development of $9 million in treaty years 2004 and prior on the trade credit book. The development arose as a result of a detailed reserve analysis of this line of business and the continued favorable development of case incurred losses relative to the assumptions used to establish the reserves. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $17 million on long tail business across a number of lines and years including: Net favorable prior period development of $30 million principally in treaty years 2003 and 2004 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, workers compensation catastrophe, and medical malpractice), offset by $16 million adverse development in treaty year 2007. The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods away from expectations as these treaty periods mature, while the 2007 treaty year development resulted from adverse incurred losses due to large loss development in casualty lines of business. Net favorable development of $142 million on short tail business across a number of lines and years including: Favorable prior period development of $43 million primarily, on treaty years 2006 and prior across several portfolios. The development arose principally on property and the credit & surety line following completion of reserve reviews in 2008. The property portfolio benefited from better than expected claim emergence, while the release in the credit & surety line followed a detailed review of claims and associated recoveries, together with favorable loss emergence; Favorable prior period development of $28 million primarily on treaty years 2006 and prior across several portfolios, principally property, marine, and energy. This included $16 million reserve release on property exposures and reflected lower than anticipated loss emergence; and Net favorable development of $71 million primarily, on accident years 2002 2006 in the property catastrophe portfolio for claims from prior catastrophe events. The reserve release followed a detailed review during the 2008 year of each event and each cedants coverage terms and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. 62 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. Life Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $3 million in 2009 on short tail A&H business. The reserve release followed a detailed review during 2009 and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Life experienced no net prior period development in 2008 or 2007. Segment Operating Results The discussions that follow include tables that show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life. As discussed previously, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Combined Insurance and certain of its subsidiaries on April 1, 2008. As such, our segment operating results include the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. Results from Combined Insurances North American operations are included in ACEs Life segment and results from Combined Insurances international operations are included in ACEs Insurance Overseas General segment. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes our retail division ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester which is our wholesale division in the U.S., ACE Bermuda, ACE Private Risk Services, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine). % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 5,641 $ 5,636 $ 5,833 0% (3)% Net premiums earned 5,684 5,679 6,007 0% (5)% Losses and loss expenses 4,013 4,080 4,269 (2)% (4)% Policy acquisition costs 517 562 515 (8)% 9% Administrative expenses 572 536 530 7% 1% Underwriting income $ 582 $ 501 $ 693 16% (28)% Net investment income 1,094 1,095 1,034 (0)% 6% Net realized gains (losses) 10 (709 ) 125 NM NM Interest expense 1 1 0% NM Other (income) expense 36 7 11 414% (36)% Income tax expense 384 315 468 22% (33)% Net income $ 1,265 $ 564 $ 1,373 124% (59)% Loss and loss expense ratio 70.6% 71.8% 71.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.1% 9.9% 8.6% Administrative expense ratio 10.1% 9.4% 8.8% Combined ratio 89.8% 91.1% 88.5% Insurance North American reported stable net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008. We experienced growth in our retail specialty casualty, professional risk business, A&H, and assumed loss portfolio businesses. We also experienced an increase in the annual crop settlement (refer to Crop Insurance). These increases were offset by declines in wholesale professional and casualty lines, as well as lower personal lines, retail property and national accounts production, and unfavorable foreign exchange impact from our Canadian operations. With respect to the personal lines business which we acquired in early 2008, we recorded a one time portfolio assumption of $76 million in net premiums written as part of the acquisition. Excluding the impact of this one time portfolio assumption, the personal lines business reported growth in 2009, compared with 63 Table of Contents 2008. Net premiums written and earned in 2009 included $221 million ($31 million in the first quarter and $95 million in the second and fourth quarters) related to assumed loss portfolio business, compared with Nil in 2008. Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased in 2008, primarily due to lower new and renewal business due to competitive conditions in our retail and wholesale divisions, partially offset by higher crop production and the inclusion of acquired personal lines business. Included in 2007 was a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program which produced approximately $170 million of net premiums written and earned. The following two tables provide a line of business breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Property and all other $ 1,690 $ 1,576 $ 1,486 7% 6% Casualty 3,734 3,857 4,298 (3)% (10)% Personal accident (A&H) 260 246 223 6% 10% Net premiums earned $ 5,684 $ 5,679 $ 6,007 0% (5)% 2009 2008 2007 % of Total % of Total % of Total Property and all other 30% 28% 25% Casualty 66% 68% 71% Personal accident (A&H) 4% 4% 4% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance North American reported stable net premiums earned for 2009, compared with 2008. We reported increases in the annual crop settlement, retail specialty casualty and professional lines, as well as higher assumed loss portfolio business. These increases were offset by 2009 declines in wholesale property, casualty, and professional risk business, as well as lower retail national accounts and property business, and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. As discussed above, 2009 included $221 million in net premiums earned related to assumed loss portfolio business, compared with Nil in 2008. For 2008, the decrease in net premiums earned was primarily driven by the decrease in financial solutions business, as 2007 included approximately $170 million related to a one time assumed loss portfolio transfer program. We also reported lower net premiums earned in our wholesale unit in 2008, primarily due to declines in casualty and inland marine business, which resulted from competitive market conditions. This trend was partially offset by crop business growth, which benefited from generally higher commodity prices for most of 2008. The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 70.6 % 71.8% 71.1% Catastrophe losses (1.0) % (5.4)% (0.3)% Prior period development 3.1 % 6.2% (0.2)% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (1.2)% 0.0% (0.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 71.5 % 72.6% 69.8% Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses were $58 million in 2009, compared with $298 million in 2008, and $16 million in 2007. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were related to an earthquake in Asia and several weather related events in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $179 million in 2009. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, and net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. In addition, in 2009 we experienced a higher ceding commission benefit and we reported increased assumed loss portfolio business, which typically generates minimal acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, due in part to the inclusion of our personal 64 Table of Contents lines business in 2008, which generates a higher acquisition cost ratio than our commercial P&C business. The increase in 2008 also reflects higher acquisition costs on crop business, as 2008 included more profitable results on the first quarter final settlement than in 2007, as well as increased crop/hail production for 2008. As discussed above, 2007 included a large loss portfolio transfer which had a favorable impact on the 2007 policy acquisition cost ratio. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher administrative expenses in our retail division to support growth in certain businesses, from both new and existing products, as well as higher spending to support growth in the personal lines business. The administrative expense ratio increased in 2008, compared with 2007, reflecting the impact of the inclusion of the personal lines business, which generates higher administrative expense ratios than our commercial P&C business, and the reduction in net premiums earned. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous retail insurance operations, the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488, and the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. This segment has four regions of operations: Europe, Asia Pacific, Far East, and Latin America. Combined Insurance distributes specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products targeted to middle income consumers in Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. The following results include Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 5,145 $ 5,332 $ 4,568 (4)% 17% Net premiums earned 5,147 5,337 4,623 (4)% 15% Losses and loss expenses 2,597 2,679 2,420 (3)% 11% Policy benefits 4 12 (67)% NM Policy acquisition costs 1,202 1,193 963 1% 24% Administrative expenses 783 793 669 (1)% 19% Underwriting income $ 561 $ 660 $ 571 (15)% 16% Net investment income 479 521 450 (8)% 16% Net realized gains (losses) (20 ) (316 ) (69 ) 94% (358)% Other (income) expense 20 (11 ) (20 ) NM 45% Income tax expense 186 100 183 86% (45)% Net income $ 814 $ 776 $ 789 5% (2)% Loss and loss expense ratio 50.5% 50.4% 52.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 23.3% 22.4% 20.8% Administrative expense ratio 15.2% 14.8% 14.5% Combined ratio 89.0% 87.6% 87.7% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to a strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to major currencies. Refer to the table below for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. On a constant dollar basis, our international retail operations experienced P&C growth in all regions, with the exception of the Far East, and reported increased A&H business in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In addition to the unfavorable foreign exchange impact, our London wholesale business unit reported lower constant dollar production within most product lines. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance, which added $370 million of net premiums written. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums earned increased due to growth in P&C production in our international retail operations. Our London wholesale operations reported a decline in net premiums earned due to lower production. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the added premiums from Combined Insurance, growth in A&H production, and favorable foreign exchange impact. Combined Insurance added $371 million to this segments 2008 net premiums earned. 65 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.9% 14.1% Foreign exchange effect (6.4)% 2.6% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3.5)% 16.7% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 3.2% 12.9% Foreign exchange effect (6.8)% 2.5% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3.6)% 15.4% The following two tables provide a line of business and regional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,787 $ 1,855 $ 1,697 (4)% 9% Casualty 1,420 1,487 1,495 (5)% (1)% Personal accident (A&H) 1,940 1,995 1,431 (3)% 39% Net premiums earned $ 5,147 $ 5,337 $ 4,623 (4)% 15% Region Europe $ 2,348 $ 2,420 $ 1,999 (3)% 21% Asia Pacific 754 791 631 (5)% 25% Far East 451 425 365 6% 16% Latin America 772 778 633 (1)% 23% 4,325 4,414 3,628 (2)% 22% ACE Global Markets 822 923 995 (11)% (7)% Net premiums earned $ 5,147 $ 5,337 $ 4,623 (4)% 15% 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total 2007 % of Total Line of Business Property and all other 34% 35% 37% Casualty 28% 28% 32% Personal accident (A&H) 38% 37% 31% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Region Europe 45% 45% 43% Asia Pacific 15% 15% 14% Far East 9% 8% 8% Latin America 15% 15% 14% 84% 83% 79% ACE Global Markets 16% 17% 21% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% 66 Table of Contents The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.5% 50.4% 52.4% Catastrophe losses (1.0)% (1.6%) (2.1)% Prior period development 5.0% 5.7% 4.1% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.5% 54.5% 54.4% Net catastrophe losses for 2009 were $51 million, compared with $83 million and $94 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to floods and windstorms in Europe. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million, $304 million, and $192 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower net premiums earned in the retail A&H business, without a commensurate reduction in advertising costs, which are generally deferred and amortized over a longer period than the related premium. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to growth in A&H business and the impact of the acquired Combined Insurance business, which is predominantly A&H business. A&H business typically attracts higher commission rates than traditional P&C business. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year. For 2008, administrative expenses increased primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange impact and the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverage to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 1,038 $ 914 $ 1,197 14% (24)% Net premiums earned 979 1,017 1,299 (4)% (22)% Losses and loss expenses 330 524 664 (37)% (21)% Policy acquisition costs 195 192 248 2% (23)% Administrative expenses 55 56 64 (2)% (13)% Underwriting income $ 399 $ 245 $ 323 63% (24)% Net investment income 278 309 274 (10)% 13% Net realized gains (losses) (17 ) (163 ) 21 90% NM Other (income) expense 2 2 4 0% (50)% Income tax expense 46 30 32 53% (6)% Net income $ 612 $ 359 $ 582 70% (38)% Loss and loss expense ratio 33.7% 51.5% 51.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.9% 18.8% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 5.6% 5.5% 4.9% Combined ratio 59.2% 75.8% 75.1% 67 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance reported increased net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to P&C production growth in U.S., Canada and Bermuda. Net premiums written declined in 2008, compared with 2007, as Global Reinsurance reported intense competition across a majority of its regions of operations, which resulted in significant declines in production. In 2008 and 2007, our clients increased their own risk retention and we adhered to our strict underwriting standards, which meant not renewing several large policies. The following tables provide a line of business breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Line of Business Property and all other $ 262 $ 229 $ 285 14 % (20 )% Casualty 433 494 671 (12 )% (26 )% Property catastrophe 284 294 343 (3 )% (14 )% Net premiums earned $ 979 $ 1,017 $ 1,299 (4 )% (22 )% 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total 2007 % of Total Property and all other 27 % 22 % 22 % Casualty 44 % 49 % 52 % Property catastrophe 29 % 29 % 26 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008 primarily because the prior year included non recurring inward reinstatement premiums related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, we experienced lower production in 2008, which had an adverse impact on net premiums earned in 2009. The decrease in net premiums earned in 2008, compared with 2007, was primarily due to reduced production caused by competitive conditions. The following table shows our adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. 2009 2008 2007 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 33.7 % 51.5 % 51.1 % Catastrophe losses (2.8) % (17.6) % (3.7) % Prior period development 14.5 % 16.0 % 2.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 45.4 % 49.9 % 50.0 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $28 million in 2009, primarily related to various Canadian storms and Hurricane Klaus. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $186 million and $49 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net catastrophe losses in 2008 were mainly due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $159 million and $34 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The decrease in the adjusted loss and loss expense ratio was due to a change in business mix which resulted in a greater proportion of property and other business production, which typically generates lower loss ratios than casualty business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the impact of the prior year inward reinstatement premiums, which generate minimal acquisition costs. Policy acquisition costs decreased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the increase in inward reinstatement premiums. Administrative expenses were stable for 2009, compared with 2008, as additional expense accruals were offset by lower staffing costs as a result of reduced headcount. In 2008, administrative expenses decreased compared with 2007, primarily due to lower staffing costs. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned, partially offset by reduced staffing costs. 68 Table of Contents Life The Life segment includes ACEs international life operations (ACE Life), ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), and from April 1, 2008, the North American supplemental A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. Combined Insurance contributed 70 percent of net premiums earned for 2009. We assess the performance of our life business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs.2008 2008 vs.2007 Net premiums written $ 1,475 $ 1,198 $ 381 23% 214% Net premiums earned 1,430 1,170 368 22% 218% Losses and loss expenses 482 320 51% NM Policy benefits 321 387 168 (17)% 130% Policy acquisition costs 216 188 45 15% 318% Administrative expenses 243 199 50 22% 298% Net investment income 176 142 55 24% 158% Life underwriting income 344 218 160 58% 36% Net realized gains (losses) (15) (532) (164) 97% (224)% Other (income) expense 2 12 1 (83)% 1100% Income tax expense (benefit) 48 30 (8) 60% NM Net income (loss) $ 279 $ (356) $ 3 NM NM The following table provides a line of business breakdown of life underwriting income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 2009vs. 2008 2008vs. 2007 Life reinsurance $ 154 $ 105 $ 181 47 % (42 )% Life insurance (1 ) (25 ) (21 ) 96 % (19 )% A&H 191 138 38 % NM Life underwriting income $ 344 $ 218 $ 160 58 % 36 % For 2009, the improvement in life underwriting income, compared with 2008, was primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance business for the full year (the prior year included Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and an increase in life reinsurance underwriting income, primarily due to a larger increase in reserves in 2008 compared with 2009, due to unfavorable market movements. While ACE Life continues to incur an underwriting loss due to start up and development costs in its businesses, underwriting income has improved in 2009 compared with 2008. Life underwriting income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of the operating results of the acquired Combined Insurance business offset by lower life reinsurance underwriting income primarily due to unfavorable market conditions and related reserve increases in 2008. Net realized gains (losses), which are excluded from life underwriting income, relate primarily to the change in the net fair value of reported GMIB reinsurance liabilities and changes in the fair value of derivatives used to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee portfolio. During 2009, realized gains associated with a decreasing net fair value of reported GMIB reinsurance liabilities were almost entirely offset by a combination of a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and modeling changes. The residual realized loss for 2009 also included the impact of foreign exchange and changes in asset values. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008, which were primarily due to adverse financial market conditions. 69 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities $ 1,985 $ 1,972 $ 1,773 Short term investments 38 109 130 Equity securities 54 93 68 Other 48 (20) 25 Gross investment income 2,125 2,154 1,996 Investment expenses (94) (92) (78) Net investment income $ 2,031 $ 2,062 $ 1,918 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income decreased two percent in 2009, compared with 2008, and increased eight percent in 2008, compared with 2007. The average market yield on fixed maturities was 4.3 percent at December 31, 2009, compared with 6.4 percent and 5.3 percent at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Average market yield represents our net investment income divided by average cost of fixed maturities and other investments and average market value of equity securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments and unfavorable foreign exchange impact during 2009, partially offset by higher average invested assets. Net investment income for 2009, was also adversely impacted because we increased cash and short term investments relative to debt and equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. During the second quarter of 2009, we deployed accumulated cash primarily into high grade fixed income securities and liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. Net investment income increased in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 2007 Average invested assets $ 43,767 $ 41,502 $ 38,798 Net investment income $ 2,031 $ 2,062 $ 1,918 Return on average invested assets 4.6% 5.0% 4.9% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. Refer to Investments, below, for information on fixed maturities we transferred from available for sale to held to maturity during the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income (as discussed below). Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. We adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities related to the recognition and presentation of OTTI as at April 1, 2009 (the adopted provisions). Under the adopted provisions, if we have the intent to sell an impaired fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred, and we are required to record the OTTI in net income. Further, in cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we must evaluate the security to determine the portion of impairment, if any, related to credit losses. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have 70 Table of Contents occurred and any portion of the OTTI related to credit losses must be reflected in net income, while the portion of OTTI related to all other factors is included in other comprehensive income. For fixed maturities, prior to the adopted provisions, ACE was required to record OTTI in net income unless we had the intent and ability to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period. The adopted provisions do not have any impact on the accounting for OTTI for any other type of investment. The cumulative effect of the adopted provisions resulted in a reduction to Accumulated other comprehensive income and an increase to Retained earnings of $242 million as at April 1, 2009. These adjustments reflect the net of tax amount ($305 million pre tax) of OTTI recognized in net income prior to the adoption related to fixed maturities held at the adoption date that have not suffered a credit loss, we do not intend to sell, and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell before the recovery of their amortized cost. Retained earnings and Deferred tax assets as at April 1, 2009, were also reduced by $47 million as a result of an increase in our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, which is a direct effect of the adopted provisions. Specifically, as a result of the reassessment of credit losses required by the adopted provisions, we determined that certain previously impaired fixed maturity securities had suffered credit losses in excess of previously estimated amounts, which may give rise to additional future capital losses for tax purposes. Given the amount of available capital gains against which such additional capital losses could be offset, at the date of adoption, we expected that a portion of capital loss carry forwards would expire unused. Accordingly, we determined that an additional valuation allowance was necessary given that it is more likely than not that a portion of deferred tax assets related to previously impaired fixed income securities would not be realized. Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturity securities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. For impaired fixed maturities, if we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. In cases where we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the security, we evaluate the security to determine if a credit loss has occurred based on a combination of qualitative and quantitative factors including a discounted cash flow model, where necessary. If a credit loss is indicated, an OTTI is considered to have occurred. Prior to the adopted provisions, when evaluating fixed maturities for OTTI, we principally considered our ability and intent to hold the impaired security to the expected recovery period, the issuers financial condition, and our assessment (using available market information such as credit ratings) of the issuers ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis. The factors that we now consider when determining if a credit loss exists related to a fixed maturity security are discussed in Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All significant assumptions used in determining credit losses are subject to change as market conditions evolve. We review all non fixed maturity investments for OTTI based on the following: the amount of time a security has been in an unrealized loss position and the magnitude of the loss position; the period in which cost is expected to be recovered, if at all, based on various criteria including economic conditions and other issuer specific developments; and our ability and intent to hold the security to the expected recovery period. As a general rule, we also consider that equity securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve consecutive months are impaired. 71 Table of Contents The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses), as well a breakdown of our OTTI and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (41 ) $ 2,717 $ 2,676 $ (846 ) $ (2,091 ) $ (2,937 ) Equity securities (145 ) 213 68 (349 ) (363 ) (712 ) Other 31 162 193 (55 ) (305 ) (360 ) Subtotal (155 ) 3,092 2,937 (1,250 ) (2,759 ) (4,009 ) Derivatives Equity and fixed income derivatives 68 68 (3 ) (3 ) Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 368 368 (650 ) (650 ) S&P put option and futures (363 ) (363 ) 164 164 Fair value adjustment on other derivatives (93 ) (93 ) 83 83 Subtotal derivatives (20 ) (20 ) (406 ) (406 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) (21 ) (21 ) 23 23 Total gains (losses) $ (196 ) $ 3,092 $ 2,896 $ (1,633 ) $ (2,759 ) $ (4,392 ) 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (234 ) $ 193 $ (41 ) $ (760 ) $ (86 ) $ (846 ) Equity securities (26 ) (119 ) (145 ) (248 ) (101 ) (349 ) Other (137 ) 168 31 (56 ) 1 (55 ) Total investment portfolio gains (losses) $ (397 ) $ 242 $ (155 ) $ (1,064 ) $ (186 ) $ (1,250 ) Our net realized losses in 2009, included write downs of $397 million as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value of certain securities was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $1.1 billion and $214 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2009 related to fixed maturities were primarily due to securities with below investment grade credit ratings and intent to sell securities in an unrealized loss position. Impairments related to all other investments were primarily due to duration and severity of decline below cost. Included in other net realized gains (losses) is a realized gain of $193 million on the fourth quarter sale of our interest in Verisk Analytics, Inc., a holding company that includes Insurance Services Office Inc. (ISO), offset by a realized loss on AGO and private equities. At December 31, 2009, our investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $414 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold our fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $145 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to recognize the associated deferred tax asset related to these fixed income investments as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized. In addition, management decreased the valuation allowance by $47 million during 2009, as a result of improvement in the unrealized gains and losses in the overall U.S. portfolio. We engage in a securities lending program which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in short term funds of high credit quality with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. Certain investments in the money market mutual funds purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in an unrealized loss of $42 million. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value was temporary. 72 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 2007 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned entities $ 39 $ (52 ) $ 39 Noncontrolling interest expense 3 11 7 Federal excise and capital taxes 16 16 18 Other 27 (14 ) 17 Other (income) expense $ 85 $ (39 ) $ 81 Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of AGO prior to the June 2009 issuance and Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited, which is included in equity in net income of partially owned entities. As discussed previously, prior to AGOs June 2009 issuance, we included our investment in AGO in Investments in partially owned insurance companies and reflected our portion of its net income (loss) under equity in net income of partially owned entities. Effective with the June 2009 issuance, we now account for the investment as an available for sale equity security. Refer to Overview Investment in Assured Guaranty Ltd. Other (income) expense also includes certain federal excise and capital taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in publicly traded, investment grade fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA (with one half invested in AAA securities), as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.7 years at December 31, 2009, compared with 3.6 years at December 31, 2008. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.6 billion at December 31, 2009. We experienced net unrealized gains of $3.1 billion in 2009 primarily due to tightening of credit spreads, particularly during the second and third quarters of 2009. In addition, greater global demand driven purchases of fixed income investments and a greater demand for risk based assets contributed to the unrealized gains. The fixed maturities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009, were comprised of both investment grade and below investment grade securities for which fair value declined primarily due to widening credit spreads since the date of purchase. As part of our fixed income diversification strategy, we decided to hold to maturity certain commercial mortgage backed securities that have shorter term durations. Because we have the intent to hold such securities to maturity, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $704 million was made during 2009 from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. The $4 million unrealized depreciation at the date of the transfer continues to be reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the remaining life of the securities as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount. Our Other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $54 million at December 31, 2009, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. Our investment portfolio is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors, and issuers. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio and we provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer, and our Treasurer. We also have well established, strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. 73 Table of Contents The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 39,525 $ 38,985 $ 31,155 $ 33,109 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,561 3,481 2,865 2,860 Short term investments 1,667 1,667 3,350 3,350 44,753 44,133 37,370 39,319 Equity securities 467 398 988 1,132 Other investments 1,375 1,258 1,362 1,368 Total investments $ 46,595 $ 45,789 $ 39,720 $ 41,819 The fair value of our total investments increased $6.9 billion during 2009. The increase was primarily due to unrealized appreciation and the investing of operating cash flows. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2009 2008 (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Market Value Percentageof Total Market Value Percentageof Total Treasury $ 2,068 5% $ 1,018 3% Agency 2,698 6% 2,027 5% Corporate 13,166 29% 8,744 23% Mortgage backed securities 11,311 25% 10,986 29% Asset backed securities 371 1% 709 2% Municipal 2,300 5% 2,124 6% Non U.S. 11,172 25% 8,412 23% Short term investments 1,667 4% 3,350 9% Total $ 44,753 100% $ 37,370 100% AAA $ 22,884 51% $ 22,960 61% AA 4,021 9% 3,374 9% A 7,461 17% 5,497 15% BBB 4,910 11% 3,388 9% BB 2,866 6% 1,119 3% B 2,029 5% 934 3% Other 582 1% 98 0% Total $ 44,753 100% $ 37,370 100% 74 Table of Contents The table below summarizes our largest exposures to corporate bonds by market value and S&P credit rating at December 31, 2009. December 31, 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Rating General Electric Co $ 454 AA+ JP Morgan Chase & Co 401 A+ Bank of America Corp 387 A Wells Fargo & Co 317 AA Citigroup Inc 275 A Verizon Communications Inc 267 A Morgan Stanley 244 A AT&T INC 236 A Goldman Sachs Group Inc 230 A HSBC Holdings Plc 176 AA Comcast Corp 173 BBB+ Credit Suisse Group 151 A Barclays PLC 126 A+ ConocoPhillips 125 A Telecom Italia SpA 125 BBB Lloyds Banking Group Plc 121 A Time Warner Cable Inc 118 BBB XTO Energy Inc 112 BBB Banco Santander SA 109 AA American Express Co 106 BBB+ Pfizer Inc 103 AA News Corp Ltd 91 BBB+ Deutsche Telekom AG 88 BBB+ Dominion Resources Inc/VA 86 A Roche Holding AG 84 BBB+ Total $ 4,705 75 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2009, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Market Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 515 $ $ $ $ $ 515 FNMA 5,298 5,298 FHLMC 1,996 1,996 Total agency RMBS 7,809 7,809 Non agency RMBS 508 43 59 74 796 1,480 Total RMBS 8,317 43 59 74 796 9,289 Commercial mortgage backed 1,728 54 234 6 2,022 Total mortgage backed securities $ 10,045 $ 97 $ 293 $ 80 $ 796 $ 11,311 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 20 $ 4 $ 2 $ 1 $ 27 $ 54 Credit cards 18 5 3 2 28 Autos 127 16 14 3 160 Other 125 4 129 Total asset backed securities $ 290 $ 25 $ 16 $ 4 $ 36 $ 371 Mortgage backed and Asset backed securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed GNMA $ 502 $ $ $ $ $ 502 FNMA 5,162 5,162 FHLMC 1,924 1,924 Total agency RMBS 7,588 7,588 Non agency RMBS 593 60 69 94 1,048 1,864 Total RMBS 8,181 60 69 94 1,048 9,452 Commercial mortgage backed 1,707 57 276 6 2,046 Total mortgage backed securities $ 9,888 $ 117 $ 345 $ 100 $ 1,048 $ 11,498 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 24 $ 6 $ 3 $ 1 $ 50 $ 84 Credit cards 18 5 3 2 28 Autos 125 16 13 3 157 Other 124 1 7 132 Total asset backed securities $ 291 $ 27 $ 16 $ 5 $ 62 $ 401 76 Table of Contents Our mortgage backed securities are rated predominantly AAA and comprise approximately 25 percent of our fixed income portfolio. This compares with a 40 percent mortgage backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market at the end of 2009. The minimum rating for our initial purchases of mortgage and asset backed securities is AAA. Agency RMBS represent securities which have been issued by Federal agencies (Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) with implied or explicit government guarantees. These represent 84 percent of our total RMBS portfolio. With respect to our non agency RMBS, these are backed by prime collateral and are broadly diversified over 260,000 loans. This portfolios loan to value ratio is approximately 70 percent with an average Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score of 730. With this conservative loan to value ratio and subordinated collateral of 13 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 20 percent (the historical cumulative foreclosure rates is eight percent for prime mortgages) and real estate values would have to fall 30 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. Within the portfolio of prime non agency RMBS are $146 million of holdings classified as alternative A paper (ALT A). These ALT A holdings are broadly diversified with over 60 percent issued prior to 2006, possess an average FICO score of 712, and have a relatively conservative loan to value ratio of 72 percent. With subordinated collateral of 21 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 32 percent and real estate values would have to fall more than 27 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The comparable cumulative market foreclosure rate was approximately 30 percent at the end of 2009. New investments in ALT A were suspended in the first quarter of 2008. Our commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified over 23,000 loans, and 73 percent of the portfolio was issued before 2006. The average loan to value ratio is approximately 67 percent with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.6 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 27 percent. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 42 percent and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than 10 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The market delinquency rate at the end of 2009 was nine percent. We suspended new investments in CMBS in the first quarter of 2009. The sub prime asset backed securities are broadly diversified in over 86,000 loans with an average loan to value ratio of approximately 81 percent and an average FICO score of 600. With subordinated collateral of 30 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 35 percent and real estate values would have to fall more than 18 percent from their levels at the end of 2009, before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate is 32 percent. ACE suspended new investments in sub prime backed securities in the third quarter of 2007. Our auto loan asset backed securities are rated predominantly AAA with a short duration of approximately six months and average subordinated collateral of 20 percent. Annual default rates would have to rise to 17 times the level at the end of 2009 of about 2.4 percent before principal is impaired. New investments in credit card and auto backed securities were suspended in the first quarter of 2008. Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio We invest in below investment grade securities through investment portfolios managed by external managers, specifically dedicated to this asset class. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. At December 31, 2009, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately 13 percent of our fixed income portfolio. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 500 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $72 million. We manage high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. The allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. Our high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (approximately 0.1 percent of the total investment portfolio). We monitor position limits daily through an internal compliance system. Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps and collateralized mortgage obligations) are not permitted in the high yield portfolio. 77 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance $ 12,745 $ 12,935 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 850 982 Net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses $ 13,595 $ 13,917 Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits $ 298 $ 259 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decline in net reinsurance recoverable in 2009 was primarily related to a higher level of crop loss payments on the 2008 crop year, as well as NICO payments related to Brandywine. Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits increased primarily due to a loss portfolio cession of Combined Insurances long term care business. Asbestos and environmental (A&E) and other run off liabilities Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Reserving considerations For asbestos, ACE faces claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party at multiple sites. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2009 2008 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,198 1,169 Newly reported 54 75 Closed or otherwise disposed 229 46 Open at end of year 1,023 1,198 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 4,704 5,132 Newly reported 196 250 Closed or otherwise disposed 1,529 678 Open at end of year 3,371 4,704 Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly higher in 2009, compared with 2008, due to a review of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files; therefore, the files were closed. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 Survival Ratios 2008 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 7.1 8.1 6.0 5.3 8.3 9.6 8.3 18.2 Environmental 2.9 4.4 3.1 4.0 3.5 5.3 2.7 4.5 Total 6.2 6.9 5.5 5.0 7.2 8.2 6.8 11.2 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2008 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves, and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims, and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year gross survival ratio for asbestos decreased from 2008 due to a number of large settlements in 2009. This has resulted in a decline in the three year gross ratio as well, though to a lesser degree than seen in the 1 year ratio. The 1 year net asbestos ratio of 5.3 declined significantly from the prior 1 year ratio because of 2008s unusually high level of ceded reinsurance associated with asbestos payments in 2008. Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world. The following modeled loss information reflects ACEs in force portfolio at October 1, 2009, and reinsurance program at January 1, 2010. The table below shows our modeled annual aggregate probable maximum loss (PML), net of reinsurance, for 100 year and 250 year return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes. The table also shows corresponding pre tax industry losses for each of the return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes. For example, according to the model, there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.128 billion (or six percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2009). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $136.665 billion. U.S. Hurricanes California Earthquakes Modeled Annual Aggregate Net PML % of Total Shareholders Equity % of Total Shareholders Equity (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) ACE Industry ACE Industry 1 in 100 $ 1,128 6 % $ 136,665 $ 731 4 % $ 36,456 1 in 250 $ 1,439 7 % $ 197,856 $ 895 5 % $ 57,486 The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 79 Table of Contents Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2010, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage in various layers that provide $450 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. Each layer of this core program has a single additional limit available for restatement post loss event on the same terms as the original limit. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this coverage, we have $86 million part of $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $575 million. While this coverage attaches at a level within our core program, any recoveries from this program shall be for ACEs sole benefit and effectively reduce the net loss under the retention. In addition, the catastrophe bonds also provide $86 million of U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. In addition, we purchased another $14 million of the same earthquake coverage as the catastrophe bonds to provide a full $100 million of earthquake coverage excess of approximately $961 million. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Due to exposure reductions and model change, the attachment for the catastrophe bonds declined from $712 million to $575 million for the $86 million of wind protection and from $1.11 billion to approximately $960 million for earthquake protection. The catastrophe bonds program expires in June 2012. While our modeled United States catastrophe exposure declined significantly in 2009, ACE did not reduce the catastrophe limits purchased at January 1, 2010, by the same amount. By way of comparison, the 2010 program has potentially approximately $37 million less in coverage for first event U.S. hurricane protection and $85 million less in first event California earthquake protection than the expiring program. We consider our retention to be approximately $500 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other catastrophe programs purchased by individual business units. These other catastrophe programs have the potential to reduce our effective retention below $500 million. Second, for losses arising outside of the U.S. and effective July 1, 2009, our core program is made up of two layers. Our first reinsurance layer remains $50 million in excess of a $50 million retention with two reinstatements. This layer was 67.75 percent placed. Our second layer provides $150 million in protection in excess of $100 million with one reinstatement. This layer was 100 percent placed. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million in excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million in excess of $250 million for Europe. The Asia Pacific top layer has one free reinstatement and one at 100 percent of original premium. With respect to the top layer for Europe, the maximum restatement is one additional full limit. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. Finally, we purchased an additional treaty that provides $50 million of protection across the top of this catastrophe program with one reinstatement. However, this top layer may also be exhausted by certain risk losses so it is not certain that it will be available to us in an event. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layers for Asia Pacific and Europe provide the same amount of coverage except for the $16.1 million retained in the $50 million excess of $50 million first layer. Crop Insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and conduct that business through Rain and Hail L.L.C., an MGA. We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance book comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover revenue shortfalls or production losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance 80 Table of Contents protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the RMA released a first draft of a proposed new SRA, which was last negotiated in 2005 and expires in its current form on June 30, 2010. The terms of the proposed new SRA are still being negotiated. However, this SRA change applies to the 2011 Crop year and therefore, we expect no impact from a new agreement on 2010 financial results. It is still unclear what the impact, if any, there will be on our business beyond 2010. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarter and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. Premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. We regularly receive reports from our MGA relating to the previous crop year(s), resulting in adjustments to previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses and profit share commissions. The adjustments are typically more significant in the first quarter of the year (annual first quarter settlement), compared with other periods. Political Risk, Trade Credit, and Structured Trade Credit Political risk insurance is a specialized coverage that provides clients with protection against unexpected, catastrophic political or macroeconomic events, primarily in developing markets. We participate in this market through our wholly owned subsidiary Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd. (Sovereign), and through a unit of our London based ACE Global Markets operation. Sovereign is one of the worlds leading underwriters of political risk insurance and has a global portfolio spread across more than 100 countries. Its clients include financial institutions, national export credit agencies, leading multilateral agencies, and multinational corporations. ACE Global Markets writes political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit business out of underwriting offices in London, Hamburg, New York, and Singapore. Our political risk insurance provides protection to commercial lenders against defaults on cross border loans, insulates investors against equity losses, and protects exporters against defaults on contracts. Commercial lenders, our largest client segment, are covered for missed scheduled loan repayments due to acts of confiscation, expropriation or nationalization by the host government; currency inconvertibility or exchange transfer restrictions, or war or other acts of political violence. In addition, in the case of loans to government owned entities or loans that have a government guarantee, political risk policies cover scheduled payments against risks of nonpayment or non honoring of government guarantees. Equity investors and corporations receive similar coverage to that of lenders, except they are protected against financial losses, inability to repatriate dividends, and physical damage to their operations caused by covered events. Our export contracts protection provides coverage for both exporters and their financing banks against the risk of contract frustration due to government actions, including non payment by government entities. ACE Global Markets trade credit and structured trade credit businesses cover losses due to insolvency, protracted default, and political risk perils including export and license cancellation. It provides trade credit coverage to larger companies that have sophisticated credit risk management systems, with exposure to multiple customers and that have the ability to self insure losses up to a certain level through excess of loss coverage. Its structured trade credit business provides coverage to finance banks, exporters, and trading companies, with exposure to trade related financing instruments (i.e., LOCs or pre export finance). We have implemented structural features in our policies in order to control potential losses within the political risk, trade credit, and structured credit businesses. These include basic loss sharing features that include co insurance and deductibles, and in the case of trade credit, the use of non qualifying losses that drop smaller exposures deemed too difficult to assess. Ultimate loss severity is also limited by using waiting periods to enable the insurer and insured to agree on recovery strategies, and the subrogation of the rights of the lender/exporter to the insurer following a claim. We pay claims over the original loan payment schedule, rather than in a lump sum in order to provide insureds and the insurer additional time to remedy problems 81 Table of Contents and work towards full recoveries. It is important to note that political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit policies are named peril conditional contracts, not financial guarantees, and claims are only paid after conditions and warranties are fulfilled. Political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit insurance do not cover currency devaluations, bond defaults, any form of derivatives, movements in overseas equity markets, transactions deemed illegal, or situations where corruption or misrepresentation has occurred, or debt that is not legally enforceable. In addition to assessing and mitigating potential exposure on a policy by policy basis, we also have specific risk management measures in place to manage overall exposure and risk. These measures include placing country and individual transaction limits based on country risk and credit ratings, combined single loss limits on multi country policies, the use of reinsurance protection, and regular modeling and stress testing of the portfolio. Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, ACE Limiteds cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted over the past three years, which included a widespread recession. These conditions and their consequences may affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties, and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the availability of reinsurance protection, the risks we assume under reinsurance programs covering variable annuity guarantees, and our investment performance. However, we believe that our present cash flows from operations, investing activities, and financing activities are sufficient to fund our current working capital and debt obligation needs. We anticipate that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) should be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2010. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. Refer to Credit Facilities below. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Our existing credit facilities have remaining terms expiring between 2012 and 2014. However, we may be required to replace credit sources in a difficult market should one of our existing credit providers experience financial difficulty. There has also been recent consolidation in the banking industry, which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing any of our credit facilities. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such duration tends to be longer. Given the current low interest rate environment, at December 31, 2009, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.7 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.1 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables, or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is 82 Table of Contents assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investment, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2009, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payments of dividends declared on our Common Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. ACE Tempest Life Re paid dividends of $400 million in 2009 and $1.2 billion in 2008. ACE Bermuda paid dividends of $502 million in 2008. A portion of the dividends received in 2008 were used in connection with our April 1, 2008, acquisition of Combined Insurance. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. The U.S. insurance subsidiaries of ACE INA may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2009 or 2008. The debt issued by ACE INA is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate of future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for 2009 and 2008. The operating cash flows reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $3.3 billion in 2009, compared with $4.1 billion in 2008. The largest contributors to the decline are net claim payments and collateral requirements. Net claim payments were $6.9 billion in 2009, compared with $6.3 billion in 2008. The collateral outflow was $397 million in 2009, compared with an inflow of $304 million in 2008. We made higher than typical net claim payments in 2009 in connection with prior year catastrophes and other individual large property related losses. The collateral outflow consisted of both the return of collateral we had received from counterparties on hedging positions as the market has improved, and collateral requirements related to new hedge positions established to protect us from the market moving lower. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $3.2 billion in 2009, compared with $4.1 billion in 2008. Net investing activities for 2009 were related primarily to net purchases of fixed maturities. For 2008 net investing activities were related primarily to net purchases and maturities on the fixed maturities portfolio and the acquisition of Combined Insurance for $2.56 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $321 million in 2009, compared with net cash flows from financing activities of $314 million in 2008. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2009, included net proceeds from the issuance, in June 2009, of $500 million in long term debt, net repayment of debt and reverse repurchase agreements of $466 million, and dividends paid on our Common Shares of $388 million. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2008, included $1.2 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long term debt. This was partially offset by $575 million of net cash flows used for financing activities relating to the redemption of our Preferred Shares, and dividends paid on our Common and Preferred Shares. 83 Table of Contents Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have agreements with a bank provider which implemented two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. We also, from time to time, utilize reverse repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. Refer to Short term debt below. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Short term debt $ 161 $ 471 Long term debt 3,158 2,806 Total debt 3,319 3,277 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Total shareholders equity 19,667 14,446 Total capitalization $ 23,295 $ 18,032 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 14.2% 18.2% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 15.6% 19.9% Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the significant increase in shareholders equity, combined with stable levels of debt and trust preferred securities. We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 Total shareholders equity, beginning of year $ 14,446 Net income 2,549 Dividends declared on Common Shares (402 ) Change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments, net of tax 2,611 Cumulative translation, net of tax 401 Income tax valuation allowance on the adoption of new OTTI standard (47 ) Pension liability (31 ) Other movements, net 140 Total shareholders equity, end of year $ 19,667 84 Table of Contents Total shareholders equity increased $5.2 billion in 2009, primarily due to net income of $2.5 billion, and the change in net unrealized appreciation on investments of $2.6 billion. The change in net unrealized appreciation on investments was primarily due to the tightening of credit spreads. The cumulative translation increased as major currencies strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Short term Debt At December 31, 2009, short term debt consisted of a five year term loan due in December 2010. Though none are outstanding at December 31, 2009, we had executed reverse repurchase agreements with certain counterparties under which we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a future date for a predetermined price. These included agreements both executed and settled in 2008 totaling $1 billion as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition. Short term debt at December 31, 2008, included $250 million in reverse repurchase agreements. All reverse repurchase agreements were settled during the second quarter of 2009. In September 2009, we repaid the ACE INA nine month term loan ($16 million), and in December 2009, we repaid the ACE INA subordinated notes ($200 million). Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $3.2 billion is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In June 2009, our subsidiary, ACE INA Holdings Inc., issued $500 million of 5.9 percent senior notes due June 2019. The notes are guaranteed by ACE Limited. The net proceeds from the issue of the senior notes were used to repay amounts owed to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements as noted above, and were also used to refinance debt maturities and for general corporate purposes. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Common Shares Our Common Shares had a par value of CHF 31.88 each at December 31, 2009. For the foreseeable future, subject to shareholder approval, we expect to make distributions to shareholders as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital rather than through dividends. At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, the Board proposed and shareholders approved the payment of a dividend by the Company in the form of a distribution to shareholders (the Dividend Approval) through a Swiss franc par value reduction pursuant to a formula that has the effect of making the U.S. dollar value of distributions more consistent. The Dividend Approval provides for an annual par value reduction of CHF 1.36 (the Base Annual Dividend), equal to $1.24 per share at the time of the Dividend Approval, payable in four installments prior to the 2010 Annual General Meeting; provided that each of the Swiss franc installments will be adjusted pursuant to the formula so that the actual Swiss franc par value reduction amount for each installment will equal $0.31, subject to an aggregate upward adjustment (the Dividend Cap) for the four installments of 50 percent of the Base Annual Dividend (i.e. CHF 0.68). Application of the formula will mean that the Swiss franc amount of each installment will be determined at the approximate time of distribution, while the U.S. dollar value of the installment will remain $0.31 unless and until the Dividend Cap is reached. A par value reduction that would otherwise exceed the Dividend Cap will be reduced to equal the Swiss franc amount remaining available under the Dividend Cap, and the U.S. dollar amount distributed will be the then applicable U.S. dollar equivalent of that Swiss franc amount. We paid the third of the four installments of $0.31 per Common Share on January 11, 2010, and in connection with this dividend, the par value per share was reduced by CHF 0.32, based on the USD/CHF rate published on December 14, 2009. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends (other than by reductions in par value) may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The board of directors of a 85 Table of Contents Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with Swiss statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Swiss Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. As noted above, for the foreseeable future, we expect to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital in the form of a reduction in par value or qualified paid in capital, which would not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2009. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 332 $ 50 $ 84 $ 25 $ 173 Purchase obligations 525 114 193 132 86 Limited partnerships funding commitments 695 285 338 60 12 Operating leases 347 68 108 86 85 Short term debt 161 161 Long term debt 3,158 50 950 2,158 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,264 218 417 366 1,263 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 7,791 896 1,190 1,619 4,086 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,783 8,997 10,521 5,760 12,505 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 3,694 272 427 321 2,674 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 49,268 $ 10,165 $ 12,138 $ 7,700 $ 19,265 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits: The liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, was $155 million at December 31, 2009. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. At December 31, 2009 we had $20 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. 86 Table of Contents Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $281 million and contract holder deposit funds of $51 million at December 31, 2009. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. 87 Table of Contents Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide collateral, which can be in the form of LOCs. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and to provide underwriting capacity as funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine(1t) Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facility ACE Limited(2) $ 500 $ 54 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Operational LOC Facility ACE Limited 1,000 554 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facility ACE Limited(3) 484 412 Dec. 2013 Unsecured Operational LOC Facility ACE Limited 500 500 Sept. 2014 Total $ 2,484 $ 1,520 (1)Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2)May also be used for LOCs. (3)Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, statutory liabilities reported by variable annuity guarantee reinsurance clients, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business, and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2009. These covenants include: (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $12 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2009, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $12.6 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $19.0 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.142 to 1, which is below the maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.35 to 1 as described in (ii) above. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. 88 Table of Contents Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, and interest. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings of ACE fall to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2009, a one notch downgrade of our S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through writing the GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to volatility in the equity and credit markets, as well as interest rates and the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed income securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income portfolio is classified as available for sale. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $8.9 billion and $10.3 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). Investment derivative instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore, have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. 89 Table of Contents The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2009. Our policies to address these risks in 2009 were not materially different from 2008. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 44,753 $ 37,370 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,623 $ 1,329 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.6% 3.6% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Although our debt and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,905 $ 3,334 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 241 $ 179 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 6.2% 5.3% Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. During the second quarter of 2009, we liquidated the majority of our publicly traded equity holdings and invested the proceeds in corporate bonds. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2009 2008 Fair value of equity securities $ 467 $ 988 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 47 $ 99 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 90 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2009 2008 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,895 $ 2,318 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 19.8% 16.0% Pre tax impact on shareholders equity of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 336 $ 192 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the benefit reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. The benefit reserves are calculated in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts (Topic 944). Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative for accounting purposes. The FVL established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the benefit reserves. Changes in the FVL, net of associated changes in the calculated benefit reserves, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views its variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small, at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. At December 31, 2009, management established benefit reserves based on the benefit ratio calculated using assumptions reflecting managements best estimate of the future performance of the variable annuity line of business. Managements best estimate reflected a judgment that the equity markets will exhibit sub par growth over the next several years. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the benefit reserves. The benefit reserves are based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk, the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Management regularly examines both quantitative and qualitative analysis and for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, determined that no change to the benefit ratio was warranted. The benefit ratio used to establish the benefit reserves at December 31, 2009, has averaged less than 3/4 standard deviation from the calculated benefit ratios, averaging the periodic results from the time the benefit ratio was changed during the first quarter of 2009 until December 31, 2009. Topic 944 requires ACE to regularly evaluate estimates used and adjust the liability balance if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. ACE evaluates its estimates regularly and management uses judgment to determine the extent to which the assumptions underlying the benefit ratio calculation used to establish benefit reserves should be adjusted. The benefit ratio will be calculated based on managements expectation for the short term and long term performance of the variable annuity guarantee liability. Managements quantitative analysis includes a review of the differential between the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date and the benefit ratio calculated on subsequent dates. The differential is measured in terms of the standard deviation of the distribution of benefit ratios (reflecting 1,000 stochastic scenarios) calculated on subsequent dates. As an example, if, on average, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date falls within 1/2 a standard deviation of the mean of the distribution of benefit ratios calculated periodically since the most recent change in benefit ratio, management may elect not to adjust the benefit ratio used to generate the benefit reserves at the quarter end valuation date. 91 Table of Contents Further, if due to changes in equity and credit market conditions, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date differs from the mean of the periodically calculated distribution of benefit ratios by less than 1 standard deviation, management will consider current market conditions when determining its expectations of future payout obligations, particularly as those market conditions relate to shorter term payout obligations. Finally, if due to changes in equity and credit market conditions, the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date differs from the mean of the periodically calculated distribution of benefit ratios by more than 1 standard deviation for a sustained and prolonged period of time, management will give substantial weight to prevailing market conditions when determining its expectations of future payout obligations. As an example, based on managements current expectations as of the publication of this document, all else being equal, the S&P 500 index would need to remain below a level of 700 for a prolonged period of time in order for management to give substantial weight to current market conditions. The benefit reserves and FVL calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk, and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The tables below show the sensitivity, at December 31, 2009, of the benefit reserves and FVL associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes only those instruments owned at the reporting date, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% 30% 40% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 57 $ 16 $ (41 ) $ (120 ) $ (225 ) $ (362) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 215 121 15 (111 ) (255 ) (389 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (111 ) (7 ) 97 203 311 421 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 161 $ 130 $ 71 $ (28 ) $ (169 ) $ (330 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 42 $ $(60) $ (143 ) $ (254 ) $ (400 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 122 (152 ) (313 ) (478 ) (637 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (104 ) 105 212 321 431 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 60 $ $ (107) $ (244) $ (411) $ (606 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 12 $ (34 ) $ (100 ) $ (192 ) $ (315 ) $ (476 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL (64 ) (228 ) (405 ) (597 ) (780 ) (933 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (97 ) 8 114 222 331 442 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (149 ) $ (254 ) $ (391 ) $ (567 ) $ (764 ) $ (967 ) Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables A rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in FVL 48 (65 ) (46 ) 27 (14 ) 13 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value 3 (4 ) Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 48 $ (65 ) $ (46 ) $ 27 $ (11 ) $ 9 Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions Mortality Lapses Annuitization (in millions of U.S. dollars) +10% 10% +25% 25% +25% 25% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (21 ) $ 22 $ 28 $ (35 ) $ (11 ) $ 12 (Increase)/decrease in FVL 9 (8 ) 89 (127 ) (60 ) 49 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (12 ) $ 14 $ 117 $ (162 ) $ (71 ) $ 61 The above tables assume benefit reserves and FVL using the benefit ratio calculated at December 31, 2009. Additionally, the above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift 92 Table of Contents in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets, we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve, we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in A rated credit spreads (A rated credit spreads are a proxy for ACEs own credit spreads), impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2009, market levels. The above sensitivities are not directly additive because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the benefit reserves and FVL is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the benefit reserves and the FVL as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. Additionally, actual sensitivity of our benefit reserves, FVL, and net income may differ from those disclosed in the tables above due to differences between short term market movements and management judgment regarding the long term assumptions implicit in our benefit ratio. 93 Table of Contents 
 
