Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for share data andpercentages) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 13,504 $ 13,240 $ 13,203 $ 12,297 $ 11,825 Net investment income 2,070 2,031 2,062 1,918 1,601 Net realized gains (losses): Net OTTI losses recognized in income (59) (397) (1,064) (141) (214) Net realized gains (losses) excluding OTTI losses 491 201 (569) 80 116 Total net realized gains (losses) 432 (196) (1,633) (61) (98) Losses and loss expenses 7,579 7,422 7,603 7,351 7,070 Policy benefits 357 325 399 168 123 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 4,195 3,941 3,872 3,226 3,171 Interest expense 224 225 230 175 176 Other (income) expense (16) 85 (39 ) 81 (35) Income tax expense 559 528 370 575 522 Income before cumulative effect 3,108 2,549 1,197 2,578 2,301 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (net of income tax) 4 Net income 3,108 2,549 1,197 2,578 2,305 Dividends on Preferred Shares (24) (45) (45) Net income available to holders of Common Shares $ 3,108 $ 2,549 $ 1,173 $ 2,533 $ 2,260 Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 9.11 $ 7.55 $ 3.50 $ 7.63 $ 6.87 Diluted earnings per share(1) $ 9.11 $ 7.55 $ 3.50 $ 7.63 $ 6.88 Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 51,407 $ 46,515 $ 39,715 $ 41,779 $ 36,601 Cash 772 669 867 510 565 Total assets 83,355 77,980 72,057 72,090 67,135 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 25,242 25,038 24,241 23,592 22,008 Net future policy benefits 2,825 2,710 2,645 537 508 Long term debt 3,358 3,158 2,806 1,811 1,560 Trust preferred securities 309 309 309 309 309 Total liabilities 60,381 58,313 57,611 55,413 52,857 Shareholders equity 22,974 19,667 14,446 16,677 14,278 Book value per share $ 68.59 $ 58.44 $ 43.30 $ 48.89 $ 42.03 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 59.2% 58.8% 60.6% 61.6% 61.2% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio(3) 31.0% 29.5% 29.0% 26.3% 26.9% Combined ratio(4) 90.2% 88.3% 89.6% 87.9% 88.1% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 122.2% 141.1% 186.1% 144.7% 157.7% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 341,246,387 337,539,294 334,606,237 331,989,064 328,617,569 Cash dividends per share $ 1.30 $ 1.19 $ 1.09 $ 1.06 $ 0.98 (1) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to holders of Common Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding the Life segment premiums. Net premiums earned for the Life segment were $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion, $1.2 billion, $368 million, and $274 million, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned, excluding the Life segment. (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. 34 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the Swiss incorporated holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 170 countries. We serve the P&C insurance and reinsurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health, and life insurance to individuals in select countries. At December 31, 2010, ACE had total assets of $83 billion and shareholders equity of $23 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. Our insurance and reinsurance operations generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Acquisitions On December 28, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) not previously owned by us for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. Prior to this transaction, ACE owned approximately 20 percent of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail. Headquartered in Johnston, Iowa, Rain and Hail has served Americas farmers since 1919, providing comprehensive multiple peril crop and crop/hail insurance protection to customers in the U.S. and Canada. We intend to operate Rain and Hail as a unit of our ACE Westchester division in the Insurance North American segment. On December 1, 2010, we acquired 100 percent of Jerneh Insurance Berhad, a general insurance company in Malaysia that had been majority owned by Jerneh Asia Berhad, an investment holding company listed on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The acquisition price was approximately $218 million in cash. On October 26, 2010, we announced that we had signed a definitive purchase agreement (the purchase agreement) to acquire New York Lifes Hong Kong and Korea life insurance operations for approximately $425 million in cash. The purchase agreement with New York Life was amended to allow for separate closings for the Hong Kong and Korea operations. On February 1, 2011, we acquired New York Lifes Korea operations for approximately $75 million in cash. The Hong Kong portion of the transaction is currently expected to close early in 2011. 35 Table of Contents Market Conditions We are observing typical soft market behavior as prices are continuing to decrease worldwide, along with increased competitive terms and conditions. Globally, the second half of 2010 was more competitive than the first half and relative to the rest of the world, the soft market conditions are more pronounced in the U.S., Bermuda and the London wholesale markets. As a result of adherence to our strict underwriting standards, new business writings for North American retail commercial P&C decreased significantly in 2010, compared with 2009. We are writing less new business and maintaining our renewals. Retentions were up particularly in those lines of business where more than price mattered. New business premiums in our international retail P&C business increased in 2010, compared with 2009, driven largely by Asia and Latin America. New business writings decreased in our London wholesale business. Our aviation business, in particular, shrank significantly due to competitive conditions. Our Global Reinsurance segment continues to experience competitive conditions, reporting premium declines during the January 1 renewal period on property catastrophe and property per risk business, while growth in international casualty was offset by reduced U.S. casualty. A&H premium increased modestly worldwide, with our international A&H business experiencing growth driven by Asia and Latin America, partially offset by decreases in our Combined Insurance business. We believe our international A&H business will continue to improve through 2011. We expect our Combined Insurance premiums to continue to decrease through 2011, given that our business is primarily concentrated in regions still emerging from recession the United States and Western Europe. Additionally, Combineds business in the U.K. and Ireland has been impacted by changes in regulatory environment as regulators in these two countries have adopted a new stance regarding sales practices. This new stance has resulted in a need for us to re train our agents and re engineer our processes. We put these two operations on a sales moratorium while we address these issues. Ireland is back in operation and in the U.K., the moratorium is continuing. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; the valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; the valuation of our investment portfolio and assessment of other than temporary impairments (OTTI); the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed living benefits (GLB); and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses Overview and key data As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but are unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for obligations on claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). Loss reserves also include an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2010, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.4 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves 36 Table of Contents were $25.2 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry net discounted reserves of $69 million. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,855 3,276 7,579 11,141 3,719 7,422 Losses and loss expenses paid (11,279 ) (3,866 ) (7,413 ) (11,093 ) (4,145 ) (6,948 ) Other (including foreign exchange translation) (101 ) 6 (107 ) 559 236 323 Losses and loss expenses acquired 133 (12 ) 145 Balance, end of year $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 (1) Net of provision for uncollectible reinsurance The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves (including loss expense reserves) segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 16,899 $ 5,951 $ 10,948 $ 17,307 $ 6,664 $ 10,643 IBNR reserves 20,492 6,198 14,294 20,476 6,081 14,395 Total $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 37 Table of Contents The following table segregates loss reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009, by three broad line of business groupings: property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H). In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 2,871 $ 1,325 $ 1,546 $ 3,149 $ 1,600 $ 1,549 Loss expenses 234 62 172 260 81 179 IBNR reserves 2,053 814 1,239 2,028 815 1,213 Subtotal 5,158 2,201 2,957 5,437 2,496 2,941 Casualty Case reserves 9,203 2,700 6,503 9,506 3,177 6,329 Loss expenses 4,034 1,733 2,301 3,773 1,661 2,112 IBNR reserves 17,704 5,132 12,572 17,777 5,110 12,667 Subtotal 30,941 9,565 21,376 31,056 9,948 21,108 A&H Case reserves 530 131 399 588 144 444 Loss expenses 27 27 31 1 30 IBNR reserves 735 252 483 671 156 515 Subtotal 1,292 383 909 1,290 301 989 Total Case reserves 12,604 4,156 8,448 13,243 4,921 8,322 Loss expenses 4,295 1,795 2,500 4,064 1,743 2,321 IBNR reserves 20,492 6,198 14,294 20,476 6,081 14,395 Total $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient, or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is, by definition, limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may include the use and interpretation of various standard actuarial reserving 38 Table of Contents methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns, and industry data as appropriate. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary and subjective factors, both qualitative and quantitative. Among some of these factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, the legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates, a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluations that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods but are based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact. Standard actuarial reserving methods The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made, where appropriate, to how consideration in method selection impacted 2010 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may subdivide product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data are aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred accident year or report year, for example) and annual or quarterly development periods. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year and second, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting). The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening rate changes, premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year is initially established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used as the basis for the actuarial central estimate for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our selected paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This most commonly occurs for relatively new product lines that have limited historical data or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the selected loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss 39 Table of Contents development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. For these product types, standard actuarial methods generally work well in determining loss reserve levels, as the loss experience is often credible, given a sufficient history and volume of claims experience. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Determining managements best estimate Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line at least once a year. At the conclusion of each review, we establish an actuarial central estimate. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures and becomes credible. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuarial, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and unit senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; historical variability of actual loss emergence compared with expected loss emergence; perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate ranges of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Such ranges are generally not a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.3 billion and represents six percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2010. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1, for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we may alter the timing of our product line reserve studies. 40 Table of Contents Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Consolidated Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail and long tail business Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are typically known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly uncertain and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting and development pattern for these product lines, the uncertainty associated with our estimate of ultimate losses for any particular accident period diminishes relatively quickly as actual loss experience emerges. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves an assessment by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2010 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established for the non catastrophe exposures using a combination of the expected loss ratio method and methods that incorporate actual loss emergence. As the year progressed, we also adjusted these reserves for large non catastrophe loss activity that we considered to be greater than the historical averages. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2010. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2010 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and expected future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more subjective relative to other factors. Since there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2010 calendar year arose from origin years 2006 2009. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life segments experienced $137 million, $131 million, $34 million, and $9 million of favorable prior period development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2006 2009 origin years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2006 2009 origin years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2008 origin years principally in response to the latest reported loss data, rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to short tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2010, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to report and settle/close. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is sometimes too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving 41 Table of Contents purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can alter the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. Where appropriate, we then supplemented this with loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson approaches to provide for claims that have been reported but are too immature to develop an individual claims estimate and also for pure IBNR. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2010 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length and volume of history and homogeneity afford credibility. For those portfolios where we feel that our data lacks credibility, our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2010 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. Recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations. While we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible to be fully reflected in our booked ultimate losses for immature years, we have been giving increasing weight to emerging experience as origin years mature and the loss emergence gains credibility. The process to develop 2010 origin year reserves for our long tail casualty business relies heavily on prior origin year reserves and historical loss ratios adjusted to current rate and loss trend levels. When estimating the ultimate loss levels for these prior origin years for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance no changes of significance were made to the loss development patterns, however, we have revised historical loss and exposure trend assumptions to reflect emerged frequency and severity trends observed in both our internal data and available industry data. In general, this has resulted in lower loss trend assumptions. While we have not assumed that these reduced loss trends continued in 2010, we have reflected this information in the process to derive expected loss ratio assumptions from historical data adjusted to 2010 origin year levels. 42 Table of Contents To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2010 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to fully reflect in our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. Our booked reserves for origin years 2007 2009 include reserves for what we believe to be our exposure to claims related to the credit crunch and recent financial frauds (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature origin years, typically 2006 and prior, we gave meaningful weight to indicated ultimates derived from methods that rely on the paid and reported loss development patterns based on historical experience where sufficient credibility existed (2005 and prior for our longest tailed lines). For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). The assumptions used to project ultimate loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. The prior period development in 2010 for long tail lines of business comprised several main components. First, we experienced favorable prior period development on a number of product lines where actual loss emergence was lower than expected and or increased weighting was given to experience based methods as relevant origin years mature (typically 2003 2006). In particular, this included national accounts, D&O and E&O product lines in Insurance North American ($159 million favorable), casualty and financial lines in Insurance Overseas General for accident year 2006 and prior ($241 million favorable) and professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice product lines in Global Reinsurance ($72 million favorable). Second, we experienced adverse development on 2007 and subsequent years arising from specific case development on excess casualty businesses ($91 million adverse) and an increasing trend in frequency and allocated claims expenses on small and middle market workers compensation ($30 million adverse). Third, we experienced adverse development from inactive product lines including Westchester and Brandywine run off operations ($114 million adverse) and middle market workers compensation ($18 million adverse). The causes for the Westchester and Brandywine operations are described further below while the development on the run off middle market workers compensation arose from higher than expected medical costs on accident years 2000 and prior. For each reserve action taken, the change was generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2010 that differed from the expected loss emergence and was deemed significant enough to warrant revising the relevant projection. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to long tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2010, refer to Prior Period Development. Sensitivity to underlying assumptions While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2010, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns for workers compensation business, the development factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for the companys current exposure requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, adjusting ground up ultimate losses by a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $290 million, either positive or negative, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This represents an impact of 9.2 percent relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.2 billion. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $325 million and gross limits of up to $150 million) and D&O and other 43 Table of Contents professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $125 million and gross limits of up to $50 million). Due to the layer of exposure covered, the expected frequency for this book is very low. As a result of the low frequency/high severity nature of the book, a small difference in the actual vs. expected claim frequency, either positive or negative, could result in a material change to the projected ultimate loss if such change in claim frequency was related to a policy where close to maximum limits were deployed. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2001 2008 by approximately $246 million. This movement is relative to recorded net IBNR reserves of $1.5 billion and net total reserves of $2.1 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected ultimate net losses and loss expenses. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $298 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2010, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $830 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2009, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $788 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. 44 Table of Contents We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2010, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $807 million, compared with the $830 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid loss and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. During 2010, ACE conducted its annual internal, ground up review of its consolidated A&E liabilities as at December 31, 2009. As a result of the internal review, the Company increased its net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $84 million (net of reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company (NICO)), while the gross loss reserves increased by $247 million. In addition, the Company increased gross loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $23 million, and net loss reserves increased by $5 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted for GAAP reporting and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include the current legal environment; specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims; assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims; assumptions regarding the ability to allocate liability among defendants (including bankruptcy trusts) and other insurers; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage; whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants; and, the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. For more information refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities and to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, endowment products, and annuities. In accordance with GAAP, we establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved 45 Table of Contents actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract meaning we use our original assumptions throughout the life of the policy and do not subsequently modify them unless we deem the reserves to be inadequate. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represented the fair value of the future profits of the in force contracts. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to arrive at the present value of the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively policy acquisition costs) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. Policy acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, including investment income. Unrecoverable costs, if any, are expensed in the period this determination is made. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. We discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts, as a matter of policy, in 2002. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002. These contracts principally provided severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and were accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the NICO contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively 46 Table of Contents few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $506 million of net premiums earned in 2010, comprised of $392 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $114 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. These have been deemed to have met risk transfer requirements. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 47 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Lossesand LossExpenses Recoverables(net ofUsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 9,882 $ 8,563 $ 216 Reinsurers not rated 420 362 107 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 215 202 123 Captives 1,839 433 41 Other structured settlements and pools 1,045 1,044 43 Total $ 13,401 $ 10,604 $ 530 At December 31, 2010, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2010, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $121 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairments (OTTI) Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, OTTI could be material to our financial condition and operating results. Refer to Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the process by which we evaluate investments for OTTI. Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2010, our net deferred tax asset was $769 million. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. available for sale fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2010, the valuation allowance of $31 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Fair value measurements The provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements, define fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establish a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 inputs). Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. ACE makes decisions regarding the categorization of assets or liabilities within the valuation hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine respective fair values at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, transfers between levels within the valuation hierarchy are determined on the same basis. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with the GAAP definition of fair value as an exit price. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all applicable investments have been valued in accordance with GAAP valuation principles. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. At December 31, 2010, our Level 3 assets represented four percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and two percent of our total assets. Our Level 3 liabilities represented 11 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and 49 Table of Contents one percent of our total liabilities at December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we transferred $39 million out of our Level 3 assets. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the valuation techniques and inputs used to determine fair values for our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy (Levels 1, 2, and 3) as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Guaranteed living benefits (GLB) derivatives Under life reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assumed the risk of GLBs associated with variable annuity (VA) contracts. We ceased writing this business in 2007. Our GLB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, (Topic 944) related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and benefit reserves is reflected in Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in Net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying liabilities through lapse, annuitization, death, or expiration of the reinsurance contract). At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero (excluding cumulative hedge gains or losses) because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices, and other assumptions on the fair value of GLBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. Refer to Note 2 j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. The fair value of GLB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model, which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant that would assume these liabilities. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and the guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) annuitization rates. Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodologies to determine rates applied to each treaty are comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. In general, the base lapse function assumes low lapse rates (ranging from about 1 percent to 6 percent per annum) during the surrender charge period of the variable annuity contract, followed by a spike lapse rate (ranging from about 10 percent to 30 percent per annum) in the year immediately following the surrender charge period, and then reverting to an ultimate lapse rate (generally around 10 percent per annum), typically over a 2 year period. This base rate is adjusted downward for policies with more valuable (more in the money) guarantees by multiplying the base lapse rate by a factor ranging from 15 percent to 75 percent. Additional lapses due to partial withdrawals and older policyholders with tax qualified contracts (due to required minimum distributions) are also included. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the policyholder will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and the level of interest rates after the GMIB waiting period, since these factors determine the value of the guarantee to the policyholder. In general, we assume that GMIB annuitization rates will be higher for policies with more valuable (more in the money) guarantees. In addition, we also assume that GMIB annuitization rates are higher in the first year immediately following the waiting period (the first year the policies are eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB) in comparison to all subsequent 50 Table of Contents years. The Company does not yet have a robust set of annuitization experience because most of its clients policyholders are not yet eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB. However, for certain clients there are several years of annuitization experience for those clients the annuitization function reflects the actual experience and has a maximum annuitization rate per annum of 8 percent (a higher maximum applies in the first year a policy is eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB it is over 13 percent). For most clients there is no currently observable relevant annuitization behavior data and so we use a weighted average (with a heavier weighting on the observed experience noted previously) of three different annuitization functions with maximum annuitization rates per annum of 8 percent, 12 percent, and 30 percent, respectively (with significantly higher rates in the first year a policy is eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB). As noted elsewhere, our GMIB reinsurance treaties include claim limits to protect ACE in the event that actual annuitization behavior is significantly higher than expected. During 2010, the Company made various changes to assumptions (primarily annuitization and lapse) and methods used to calculate the fair value. The changes had a net effect of reducing fair value of the liability by $98 million (where the dollar impact of each change was measured in the quarter in which the change was implemented). During 2010, we recorded realized losses of $64 million primarily due to increasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities resulting substantially from the impact of falling interest rates. This excludes realized losses of $150 million during 2010 on derivative hedge instruments held to partially offset the risk in the VA guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for a breakdown of the realized gains on GLB reinsurance and the realized losses on the derivatives for 2010 and 2009. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of VA guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All VA guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract, but some examples of typical contract provisions include: annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured account or guaranteed value, for GMDBs and GMIBs; annual annuitization rate limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible account or guaranteed value, for GMIBs; and per policy claim limits, as a percentage of guaranteed value, for GMABs. A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $21 million and $47 million at December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparties, on a daily basis. We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. The aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5 10 percent annually. Note that GLB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first payment eligibility Percent of living benefitaccount values 2010 and prior 1% 2011 0% 2012 7% 2013 24% 2014 19% 2015 5% 2016 6% 2017 18% 2018 and after 20% Total 100% 51 Table of Contents The following table provides the historical cash flows under these policies for the periods indicated. The amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 109 $ 108 Less paid claims 125 152 Net $ (16 ) $ (44 ) Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premium $ 162 $ 162 Less paid claims 4 5 Net $ 158 $ 157 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 271 $ 270 Less paid claims 129 157 Net $ 142 $ 113 Death Benefits (GMDB) For premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring GMDBs, at current market levels, we expect approximately $105 million of claims and $91 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months. Guaranteed Living Benefits (includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring predominantly Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB) are collectively known as Guaranteed Living Benefits (GLB). Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. The vast majority of these policyholders become eligible in years 2013 and beyond. At current market levels, we expect approximately $1 million of claims and $149 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months. Collateral In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit, ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, in an amount sufficient for them to obtain statutory reserve credit. The timing of the calculation and amount of the collateral varies by client according to the particulars of the reinsurance treaty and the statutory reserve guidelines of the clients state of domicile. Refer to Note 4 i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired, was $4 billion at December 31, 2010. During 2010, our goodwill balance increased by approximately six percent, primarily due to acquisitions and foreign exchange movements at the legal entity level. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment evaluation involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if a potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are: North American and International divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; Domestic and International divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; and ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. Based on our impairment testing for 2010, we determined that no impairment was required and that none of our reporting units were at risk for failing the initial impairment testing step. To estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value 52 Table of Contents models apply multiples, including the consideration of a control premium, of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model applies a control premium to our market capitalization and, so adjusted, compares the allocated market capitalization to the allocated book value of each reporting unit. To determine an appropriate control premium we considered both the mean and range of control premiums paid in our industry for recent transactions involving businesses similar to our reporting units. We then selected a control premium within the range appropriate to our business. We must assess whether the current fair value of our reporting units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our reporting units, including: short term and long term growth rates; estimated cost of equity and changes in long term risk free interest rates; selection of appropriate earnings and book value market multiples to be utilized in various multiple approaches; and risk premium applied in determining discount rate for calculating net present value of estimated future cash flows. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Net premiums written $ 13,708 $ 13,299 $ 13,080 3% 2% Net premiums earned 13,504 13,240 13,203 2% 0% Net investment income 2,070 2,031 2,062 2% (2)% Net realized gains (losses) 432 (196 ) (1,633 ) NM 88% Total revenues 16,006 15,075 13,632 6% 11% Losses and loss expenses 7,579 7,422 7,603 2% (2)% Policy benefits 357 325 399 10% (19)% Policy acquisition costs 2,337 2,130 2,135 10% 0% Administrative expenses 1,858 1,811 1,737 3% 4% Interest expense 224 225 230 0% (2)% Other (income) expense (16 ) 85 (39 ) NM NM Total expenses 12,339 11,998 12,065 3% (1)% Income before income tax 3,667 3,077 1,567 19% 96% Income tax expense 559 528 370 6% 43% Net income $ 3,108 $ 2,549 $ 1,197 22% 113% NM not meaningful 53 Table of Contents The following table summarizes by major product line the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 P&C A&H Total Total Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.0% 0.5% 1.7% 4.8% Foreign exchange effect 0.9% 3.2% 1.4% (3.1)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 2.9% 3.7% 3.1% 1.7% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 0.6% 1.0% 0.7% 3.5% Foreign exchange effect 0.7% 3.1% 1.3% (3.2)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.3% 4.1% 2.0% 0.3% The following table shows a breakdown of our consolidated net premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 % change 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Retail P&C $ 6,533 $ 6,347 $ 6,289 3% 1 % Wholesale 2,212 2,222 2,426 0% (8 )% Reinsurance 1,075 1,038 914 4% 14 % Property, casualty and all other 9,820 9,607 9,629 2% 0 % Personal accident (A&H) 3,346 3,229 3,018 4% 7 % Life 542 463 433 17% 7 % Total consolidated $ 13,708 $ 13,299 $ 13,080 3% 2 % Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2010, compared with 2009. We benefited from favorable foreign exchange impact and reported growth in our international retail business, global reinsurance operations, personal lines, international life, and our wholesale division in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recognized a non recurring premium adjustment in our Insurance North American segment. Growth was partially offset by a decline in assumed loss portfolio business and by our crop business, which generated a lower adjustment to net premiums written and earned in connection with crop settlements. In addition, net premiums written and earned were reduced by $35 million in 2010, due to reinstatement premiums expensed which were primarily in connection with the first quarter 2010 catastrophe activity. Net premiums written increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year (the prior year period included the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and increased assumed loss portfolio business. We also reported increased retained premium from P&C reinsurance, increased retail specialty casualty production and benefitted from the annual first quarter crop settlement, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impact, and lower production in wholesale P&C, retail national accounts, property, and personal lines. Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure periods expire. Net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to increases in net premiums earned in our Global Reinsurance segment, international retail business, personal lines, international life, and U.S. casualty. These increases were partially offset by lower crop business and assumed loss portfolios, as well, as declines in our London wholesale unit. Net premiums earned for 2009 were stable compared with 2008, as declines in wholesale P&C, and retail national accounts and property business, as well as an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. These were offset by growth in assumed loss portfolio business, crop business, and retail specialty casualty and included Combined Insurances results for the full period. 54 Table of Contents The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the periods indicated. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) % change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Property and all other $ 3,898 $ 4,023 $ 3,954 (3)% 2 % Casualty 5,752 5,587 5,838 3% (4 )% Subtotal 9,650 9,610 9,792 0% (2 )% Personal accident (A&H) 3,331 3,198 3,004 4% 6 % Life 523 432 407 21% 6 % Net premiums earned $ 13,504 $ 13,240 $ 13,203 2% 0 % 2010 % of total 2009 % of total 2008 % of total Property and all other 29% 30% 30% Casualty 43% 42% 44% Subtotal 72% 72% 74% Personal accident (A&H) 25% 25% 23% Life 3% 3% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net investment income increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base, partially offset by lower yields on new investments and short term securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. Net investment income was also adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements in 2009. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting loss. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition cost ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio 59.2% 58.8% 60.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 17.4% 16.2% 16.2% Administrative expense ratio 13.6% 13.3% 12.8% Combined ratio 90.2% 88.3% 89.6% 55 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and the impact of prior period development on our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 59.2% 58.8% 60.6% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (3.2)% (1.2)% (4.7)% Prior period development 4.6% 4.9% 6.8% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.3)% (0.8)% 0.0% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 60.3% 61.7% 62.7% We recorded net pre tax catastrophe losses of $366 million in 2010 compared with net pre tax catastrophe losses of $137 million and $567 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2010 were primarily related to weather related events in the U.S., earthquakes in Chile, Mexico, and New Zealand, and storms in Australia and Europe. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to an earthquake in Asia, floods in Europe, several weather related events in the U.S., and a European windstorm. For 2008, the catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $503 million of net favorable prior period development in our P&C segments in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development in our P&C segments of $576 million and $814 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio declined in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, non recurring premium adjustment and the reduction in assumed loss portfolio business, which is written at higher loss ratios than other types of business. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009. The increase was primarily related to the impact of crop settlements, which generated higher profit share commissions and a lower adjustment to net premiums earned, as well as the impact of reinstatement premiums expensed in connection with catastrophe activity and changes in business mix. Our administrative expense ratio increased in 2010, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, reinstatement premiums expensed, and increased costs in our international operations. Although the crop settlements generate minimal administrative expenses, they resulted in lower adjustment to net premiums earned in 2010, compared with 2009. Administrative expenses in 2010, were partially offset by higher net results generated by our third party claims administration business, ESIS, the results of which are included within our administrative expenses. ESIS generated $85 million in net results in 2010, compared with $26 million in 2009. The increase is primarily from non recurring sources. Our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable in 2009, compared with 2008, as increases in our Combined Insurance operations were offset by more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. Administrative expenses increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance for the full year and costs associated with new product expansion in our domestic retail operation and in our personal lines business. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate was 15 percent in 2010, compared with 17 percent and 24 percent in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate in 2010, was primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings to lower tax paying jurisdictions, a decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits which was the result of a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service Appeals Division regarding federal tax returns for the years 2002 2004, and the recognition of a non taxable gain related to the acquisition of Rain and Hail. The 2009 year included a reduction of a deferred tax valuation allowance related to investments. For 2008, our effective income tax rate was adversely impacted by a change in mix of earnings due to the impact of catastrophe losses in lower tax paying jurisdictions. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development, inclusive of the Life segment, of $512 million during 2010 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. With respect to ACEs crop business, ACE regularly receives reports from its managing general agent (MGA) relating to the previous crop year(s) in subsequent calendar quarters and this typically results 56 Table of Contents in adjustments to the previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission. Commencing in the third quarter of 2009, prior period development for ACEs crop business includes adjustments to both crop losses and loss expenses and the related crop profit share commission. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability; while short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes (favorable) and adverse prior period development by segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2010 Insurance North American active $ (102 ) $ (137 ) $ (239 ) 1.5 % Insurance North American runoff** 132 132 0.8 % Insurance Overseas General (159 ) (131 ) (290 ) 4.3 % Global Reinsurance (72 ) (34 ) (106 ) 4.7 % Life (9 ) (9 ) 4.0 % Total $ (201 ) $ (311 ) $ (512 ) 2.0 % 2009 Insurance North American active $ (162 ) $ (105 ) $ (267 ) 1.7 % Insurance North American runoff** 88 88 0.5 % Insurance Overseas General (140 ) (115 ) (255 ) 4.2 % Global Reinsurance (93 ) (49 ) (142 ) 5.6 % Life (3 ) (3 ) 1.4 % Total $ (307 ) $ (272 ) $ (579 ) 2.4 % * Calculated based on the segment/total beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expenses reserves. ** Brandywine Holdings and Westchester Specialty operations in respect of 1996 and prior years, and Commercial Insurance Services (CIS) workers compensation. Insurance North American Insurance North Americans active operations experienced net favorable prior period development of $239 million in 2010, resulting from several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $102 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $49 million within our financial solutions business driven by the favorable impact of a settlement in 2010 on a major contract, primarily in the 2000 and prior accident years; Favorable development of $105 million in our D&O and E&O portfolios following detailed claim and actuarial reviews of case activity in 2010. This development was the net of favorable movements primarily in the 2006 and prior accident years, partially offset by adverse movements in the 2007 2009 years; Favorable development of $54 million on our national accounts portfolio. The favorable development was a function of two primary factors. First, this development related to our annual assessment in 2010 of multi claimant events including industrial accidents. Consistent with prior years, we reviewed these potential exposures for accident year 2009, after the close of the accident year to allow for late reporting or identification of significant losses. Second, there was better than expected loss emergence reported in 2010 on the 2005 and 2006 accident years and greater weighting assigned to experienced based methods; Adverse development of $91 million in our excess casualty businesses principally arising in the 2007 accident year following case specific developments on several open claims; Adverse development of $30 million in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios that was driven by an increasing trend in claims frequency and allocated claims expenses on accident years 2008 and subsequent; and Favorable development of $15 million on other lines across a number of accident years, primarily following better than expected loss emergence. 57 Table of Contents Net favorable development of $137 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $41 million in our crop/hail business associated with recording the most recent bordereaux for the 2009 and prior crop years. The $41 million reflects the net of improvement in the loss estimate ($86 million) and a corresponding increase in profit share commission expense ($45 million); and Favorable development of $96 million in property, aviation, inland and recreational marine, political risk, and other short tailed exposures principally in accident years 2007 2009 following lower than expected loss emergence. Insurance North Americans runoff operations experienced net adverse prior period development of $132 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements impacting accident years 2000 and prior, driven by the following principal changes: Adverse development of $114 million in our Westchester and Brandywine runoff operations. This development includes $89 million related to the completion of the reserve review during 2010 and is comprised primarily of adverse development for asbestos claims related to increased loss and defense cost payment activity on a limited number of accounts and adverse development for assumed reinsurance due to increased paid loss and case reserve activity in recent years, partially offset by increased distributions received from insolvent reinsurers and commutations. This also includes additional adverse development of $19 million for unallocated loss adjustment expenses due to runoff operating expenses paid during the current year; and Adverse development of $18 million on runoff CIS workers compensation following emergence of higher than expected medical costs. Insurance North Americans active operations experienced net favorable prior period development of $267 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $162 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $42 million in our foreign casualty product lines where both paid and reported incurred loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity was favorable relative to the expected activity implied in our prior review, particularly for workers compensation and general liability coverages primarily impacting accident years 2004 2006; Favorable development of $52 million in our national accounts loss sensitive accounts unit impacting the 2005 2007 accident years. This development represents the reduction in premium based loss reserves that resulted from a $96 million reduction in our estimate of retrospectively rated premiums due to updated information for the 2004 2007 policy years; Favorable development of $33 million in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit concentrated in policies issued in the 2004 2006 years. This favorable development was a function of a continuation of lower than expected loss development, first observed in 2008, on a small number of large risks with predominantly workers compensation exposure; and Favorable development of $35 million on all other long tail lines, including our programs division and medical risk business, concentrated within the 2006 and prior accident years. Net favorable development of $105 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $49 million mainly in our political risk business, short tail lines in our programs division, and recreational marine business, primarily relating to the 2004 2008 accident years as a result of a lack of claims emergence; and Favorable development of $56 million in other lines including property, crop, A&H, and other lines principally in accident years 2005 2007 following lower than expected loss emergence. Insurance North Americans runoff operations experienced net adverse prior period development of $88 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements impacting accident years 1999 and prior, driven by the following principal change: Adverse development in our Brandywine runoff operations comprising several components. First, adverse development of $47 million in assumed reinsurance pools which was the combined impact from receipt of updated information on pool reserves and adverse impact of activity on a litigated claim. Second, adverse development of $28 million on workers compensation business due to higher than expected case incurred loss development since the last review. Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, representing 2.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. 58 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $290 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $159 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $241 million in casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines for accident years 2006 and prior that recognized both favorable loss emergence and a greater weight to experience based methods as years mature; and Adverse development of $82 million in the casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines book for accident years 2007 2009 principally arising from a claims review of financial crisis related claims (adverse $57 million impact) and emergence of adverse frequency and severity trends within certain portfolios (adverse $24 million impact). Net favorable development of $131 million on short tail business, including property, marine, A&H, and energy lines across multiple geographical regions, and within both retail and wholesale operations, lower than expected loss emergence, principally on accident years 2007 2009. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $140 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $201 million on casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines, predominantly arising on the 2005 and prior accident years. This amount was based primarily on detailed reviews completed in 2009 which noted improvements in experience relative to the expectations of the prior detailed analyses, including case specific savings on several significant 2001 2003 bankers professional indemnity claims. Due to the greater level of maturity of these years, increasing weight has been given to the emerged loss experience; and Adverse development of $70 million relating to the 2008 accident year for financial lines in connection with exposure to financial frauds and sub prime claims. This amount was based primarily on a claims review conducted during 2009 of notifications and potential exposure. During this review, we obtained assessments from external legal counsel of the governing law on each potential claim and assessed all other claimant information to arrive at the provision for each case. Net favorable development of $115 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $94 million in the property and energy, A&H, and marine lines of business across multiple geographic regions, principally due to specific case reserve reductions on previously reported claims and lower than anticipated development on other claims led to a release of prior year reserves mainly in accident years 2003 2008; and Favorable development of $21 million on other lines including aviation where case development has been favorable on the 2005 and prior accident years as a result of case specific reductions for product liability claims. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, representing 4.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $106 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $72 million on long tail business, including net favorable prior period development of $96 million principally in treaty years 2003 2006 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice). The lower loss estimates arose from a combination of favorable incurred loss trends and increased weighting to experience based methods. Net favorable development of $34 million on short tail business, primarily in treaty years 2003 2008 across property lines, including property catastrophe, trade credit and surety principally as a result of lower than anticipated loss emergence. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $93 million on long tail business principally in treaty years 2003 2005 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice). The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods and away from expectations as these treaty periods mature. Net favorable development of $49 million on short tail business following lower than expected loss emergence in property and trade credit related lines. 59 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, representing 5.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. Life Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $9 million in 2010. The favorable development followed a detailed review during 2010 and was mainly for accident year 2009 in the short tail A&H line of business. Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $3 million in 2009 on short tail A&H business. The reserve release followed a detailed review during 2009 and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Life experienced no net prior period development in 2008. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 The discussions that follow include tables that show our segment operating results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, ACE Private Risk Services, and various run off operations. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 5,797 $ 5,641 $ 5,636 3% 0% Net premiums earned 5,651 5,684 5,679 (1)% 0% Losses and loss expenses 3,918 4,013 4,080 (2)% (2)% Policy acquisition costs 625 517 562 21% (8)% Administrative expenses 561 572 536 (2)% 7% Underwriting income 547 582 501 (6)% 16% Net investment income 1,138 1,094 1,095 4% 0% Net realized gains (losses) 417 10 (709 ) NM NM Interest expense 9 1 1 NM 0% Other (income) expense (22 ) 36 7 NM 414% Income tax expense 436 384 315 14% 22% Net income $ 1,679 $ 1,265 $ 564 33% 124% Loss and loss expense ratio 69.3% 70.6% 71.8% Policy acquisition cost ratio 11.1% 9.1% 9.9% Administrative expense ratio 9.9% 10.1% 9.4% Combined ratio 90.3% 89.8% 91.1% Insurance North American reported an increase in net premiums written in 2010, compared with 2009. For 2010, the retail division reported growth in A&H and workers compensation, as well as increased premium retention in professional risk lines and favorable foreign exchange impact on Canadian business. The retail division also benefited from one time premium related adjustments totaling $80 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. These increases were partially offset by less new business and renewed policies across several lines of business, reflecting a decline in value of exposures, competitive market conditions, and our adherence to underwriting discipline. These factors were especially evident in our national accounts, as well as aerospace and energy lines of business. Growth in the retail division was also offset by a decline in assumed loss portfolio business. The years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, included net premiums written and earned of approximately $86 million and $221 million, respectively, related to assumed loss portfolio business. Net premiums written in our wholesale 60 Table of Contents division increased in 2010, compared with the prior year, primarily due to higher premium retention, along with increases in commercial risk and professional lines as well as the addition of new program business. These increases were partially offset by lower crop production primarily reflecting the impact of crop settlements. Throughout the year, we receive the results from the previous crop year which typically require us to make adjustments to previously estimated premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission (refer to Crop Insurance). Our personal lines business reported growth in homeowners and auto insurance, as well as specialty offerings in 2010. Insurance North American reported stable net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008. We experienced growth in our retail specialty casualty, professional risk, A&H, and assumed loss portfolio businesses and in the crop business within our wholesale division. These increases were offset by declines in retail property and national accounts production, unfavorable foreign exchange impact from our Canadian operations, declines in wholesale professional and casualty lines, as well as lower personal lines production. The following two tables provide a line of business breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Property and all other $ 1,578 $ 1,690 $ 1,576 (7)% 7% Casualty 3,777 3,734 3,857 1% (3)% Personal accident (A&H) 296 260 246 14% 6% Net premiums earned $ 5,651 $ 5,684 $ 5,679 (1)% 0% 2010 2009 2008 % of Total % of Total % of Total Property and all other 28% 30% 28% Casualty 67% 66% 68% Personal accident (A&H) 5% 4% 4% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance North American reported a decline in net premiums earned in 2010, compared with 2009. This decline was attributable to less assumed loss portfolio transfers, in addition to a decrease in risk management business in the retail division, lower professional and casualty business and less favorable crop settlements in the wholesale division. These decreases were partially offset by increases in workers compensation, professional risk, A&H, and personal lines, favorable foreign exchange impact, the one time premium related adjustments totaling $80 million and new program business in the wholesale division. Insurance North American reported stable net premiums earned for 2009, compared with 2008. We reported increases in the specialty casualty and professional lines and higher assumed loss portfolio business in the retail division as well as an increase in the annual crop settlement in the wholesale division. These increases were offset by declines in national accounts and property business, an unfavorable foreign exchange impact in the retail division and declines in property, casualty and professional risk business in the wholesale division. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior period development, and large assumed loss portfolio transfers on our loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 69.3% 70.6% 71.8% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (2.6)% (1.0)% (5.4)% Prior period development 2.7% 3.1% 6.2% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.5)% (1.2)% 0.0% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 68.9% 71.5% 72.6% 61 Table of Contents Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses were $143 million in 2010, compared with $58 million and $298 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2010, were related to severe weather related events in the U.S. and earthquakes in Haiti and Chile. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were related to an earthquake in Asia and several weather related events in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $107 million in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $179 million and $351 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio declined in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, non recurring premium adjustment and the reduction in assumed loss portfolio business, which is written at higher loss ratios than other types of business. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009. In 2010, our retail units experienced a shift in mix of business towards higher commission specialty casualty business, professional and personal lines, and a decline in assumed loss portfolio business which generates minimal expense. In the wholesale division, the impact of crop settlements which generated higher profit share commissions and a lower adjustment to net premiums earned compared with 2009, contributed to this increase. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, due to a higher ceding commission benefit and the increased assumed loss portfolio business in the retail division. In addition, we experienced more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions in the wholesale division in 2009. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio decreased in 2010 primarily due to higher net results generated by our third party claims administration business in the retail division, ESIS, the results of which are included within our administrative expenses. ESIS generated $85 million in net results in 2010, compared with $26 million in 2009. This increase is primarily from non recurring sources. In addition, the decline in assumed loss portfolio business resulted in an adverse impact on our administrative expense ratio in 2010. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher administrative expenses in our retail division to support growth in certain businesses, from both new and existing products, as well as higher spending to support growth in the personal lines business. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment comprises ACE International, our retail business serving territories outside the U.S., Bermuda, and Canada; the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance; and the wholesale insurance business of ACE Global Markets, our London based excess and surplus lines business that includes Lloyds Syndicate 2488. The reinsurance operation of ACE Global Markets is included in the Global Reinsurance segment. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 5,280 $ 5,145 $ 5,332 3% (4)% Net premiums earned 5,240 5,147 5,337 2% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 2,647 2,597 2,679 2% (3)% Policy benefits 4 4 12 0% (67)% Policy acquisition costs 1,251 1,202 1,193 4% 1% Administrative expenses 840 783 793 7% (1)% Underwriting income 498 561 660 (11)% (15)% Net investment income 475 479 521 (1)% (8)% Net realized gains (losses) 123 (20 ) (316 ) NM 94% Interest expense 1 NM 0% Other (income) expense (13 ) 20 (11 ) NM NM Income tax expense 173 186 100 (7)% 86% Net income $ 935 $ 814 $ 776 15% 5% Loss and loss expense ratio 50.6% 50.5% 50.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 23.9% 23.3% 22.4% Administrative expense ratio 16.0% 15.2% 14.8% Combined ratio 90.5% 89.0% 87.6% 62 Table of Contents 2010 2009 P&C A&H Total Total Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% 2.9% Foreign exchange effect 1.6% 3.7% 2.4% (6.4)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.8% 4.0% 2.6% (3.5)% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency (0.8)% 0.3% (0.4)% 3.2% Foreign exchange effect 1.4% 3.6% 2.2% (6.8)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 0.6% 3.9% 1.8% (3.6)% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2010, primarily due to growth in our international retail operations and favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by reduced production in our London wholesale business. Refer to the table above for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. In 2010, our international retail P&C business reported growth driven primarily by new business in Asia Pacific, Latin America, the U.K. and Europe. A&H improved in 2010 on the strength of new business in Asia Pacific and Latin America. The personal lines business increased during 2010, primarily due to an increase in production retention as well new business in the U.K., Europe, and Latin America. Our London wholesale business unit reported lower production within most product lines, as we continue to decline business submitted at prices we deem to be inadequate from an underwriting perspective. For 2010, Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written and earned were reduced by approximately $33 million due to reinstatement premiums expensed primarily in connection with first quarter catastrophe activity. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact and lower constant dollar production within our London wholesale business. On a constant dollar basis, our international retail operations experienced P&C growth in all regions, with the exception of the Far East, and reported increased A&H business in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the growth in the international retail operations and favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by lower wholesale writings and reinstatement premiums expensed in connection with first quarter catastrophe activity. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums earned increased due to growth in P&C production in our international retail operations. Our London wholesale operations reported a decline in net premiums earned due to lower production. 63 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and regional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,800 $ 1,787 $ 1,855 1% (4)% Casualty 1,424 1,420 1,487 0% (5)% Personal accident (A&H) 2,016 1,940 1,995 4% (3)% Net premiums earned $ 5,240 $ 5,147 $ 5,337 2% (4)% Region Europe $ 2,284 $ 2,348 $ 2,420 (3)% (3)% Asia Pacific 847 754 791 12% (5)% Far East 465 451 425 3% 6% Latin America 905 772 778 17% (1)% 4,501 4,325 4,414 4% (2)% ACE Global Markets 739 822 923 (10)% (11)% Net premiums earned $ 5,240 $ 5,147 $ 5,337 2% (4)% 2010 % of Total 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total Line of Business Property and all other 34% 34% 35% Casualty 27% 28% 28% Personal accident (A&H) 39% 38% 37% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Region Europe 44% 45% 45% Asia Pacific 16% 15% 15% Far East 9% 9% 8% Latin America 17% 15% 15% 86% 84% 83% ACE Global Markets 14% 16% 17% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.6% 50.5% 50.4% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (2.8)% (1.0)% (1.6)% Prior period development 5.5% 5.0% 5.7% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 53.3% 54.5% 54.5% Net catastrophe losses in 2010 were $132 million, compared with $51 million and $83 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses in 2010 included earthquakes in Chile and Mexico, and storms in Australia and Europe. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to floods and windstorms in Europe. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas 64 Table of Contents General experienced net favorable prior period development of $290 million, $255 million, and $304 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for 2010 decreased primarily due to improved current accident year loss experience compared with the prior year periods in our retail business, partially offset by an increase in current year accident losses in our wholesale business. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to changes in mix of business, and the impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums expensed. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2010, primarily due to the impact of reinstatement premiums expensed, and reduced wholesale earned premiums. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower net premiums earned in the retail A&H business, without a commensurate reduction in advertising costs, which are generally deferred and amortized over a longer period than the related premium. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re International, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverage to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 1,075 $ 1,038 $ 914 4% 14% Net premiums earned 1,071 979 1,017 9% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 518 330 524 57% (37)% Policy acquisition costs 204 195 192 5% 2% Administrative expenses 55 55 56 0% (2)% Underwriting income 294 399 245 (26)% 63% Net investment income 288 278 309 4% (10)% Net realized gains (losses) 93 (17 ) (163 ) NM 90% Other (income) expense (23 ) 2 2 NM 0% Income tax expense 42 46 30 (9)% 53% Net income $ 656 $ 612 $ 359 7% 70% Loss and loss expense ratio 48.4% 33.7% 51.5% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.0% 19.9% 18.8% Administrative expense ratio 5.1% 5.6% 5.5% Combined ratio 72.5% 59.2% 75.8% Global Reinsurance reported an increase in net premiums written in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to a significant new workers compensation treaty recorded during 2010 in our U.S. operation, partially offset by generally competitive conditions across most of Global Reinsurances product lines and regions of operations. Net premiums written increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to P&C production growth in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. 65 Table of Contents The following tables provide a line of business breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Property and all other $ 239 $ 262 $ 229 (9 )% 14 % Casualty 551 433 494 27 % (12 )% Property catastrophe 281 284 294 (1 )% (3 )% Net premiums earned $ 1,071 $ 979 $ 1,017 9 % (4 )% 2010 % of Total 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total Property and all other 22 % 27 % 22 % Casualty 51 % 44 % 49 % Property catastrophe 27 % 29 % 29 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the significant new workers compensation business bound and higher casualty reinsurance production in the prior year in our U.S. operations. Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily because 2008 included non recurring inward reinstatement premiums related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, we experienced lower production in 2008, which had an adverse impact on net premiums earned in 2009. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and prior period development on this segments loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 48.4 % 33.7 % 51.5 % Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (8.4) % (2.8) % (17.6) % Prior period development 10.0 % 14.5 % 16.0 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 50.0 % 45.4 % 49.9 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $91 million in 2010, compared with net catastrophe losses of $28 million and $186 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010, included storms in Australia and earthquakes in Chile and New Zealand. Catastrophe losses for 2009, were primarily related to various Canadian storms and Hurricane Klaus. For 2008, catastrophe losses were primarily due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $106 million in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $142 million and $159 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The increase in the adjusted loss and loss expense ratio was due to a change in business mix. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio decreased in 2010, compared with 2009, as a result of lower commission in our U.S. operations, primarily due to the new workers compensation treaty business which did not generate acquisition costs. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the impact of inward reinstatement premiums in 2008, which generated minimal acquisition costs. The administrative expense ratio decreased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned. In 2009, the administrative expense ratio increased compared with 2008, primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned. 66 Table of Contents Life The Life segment includes ACEs international life operations (ACE Life), ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), and the North American supplemental A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. We assess the performance of our life business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 1,556 $ 1,475 $ 1,198 5% 23% Net premiums earned 1,542 1,430 1,170 8% 22% Losses and loss expenses 496 482 320 3% 51% Policy benefits 353 321 387 10% (17)% Policy acquisition costs 257 216 188 19% 15% Administrative expenses 228 243 199 (6)% 22% Net investment income 172 176 142 (2)% 24% Life underwriting income 380 344 218 10% 58% Net realized gains (losses) (192) (15) (532) NM 97% Interest expense 3 NM 0% Other (income) expense 20 2 12 NM (83)% Income tax expense 62 48 30 29% 60% Net income $ 103 $ 279 $ (356) (63)% NM The following table provides a line of business breakdown of life underwriting income for the periods indicated. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Life reinsurance and other non recurring expenses $ 172 $ 154 $ 105 12 % 47 % Life insurance (30 ) (20 ) (28 ) (50 )% 29 % A&H 238 210 141 13 % 49 % Life underwriting income $ 380 $ 344 $ 218 10 % 58 % Life underwriting income increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to increased A&H premium retention as well as lower administrative costs due to operating efficiencies in North American supplemental A&H. In addition, for 2010, life reinsurance benefited from favorable market movements in the first quarter relative to the prior year period. ACE Life generated a modest underwriting loss due to on going development costs in its businesses. For 2009, the improvement in life underwriting income, compared with 2008, was primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance business for the full year (the prior year included Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and an increase in life reinsurance underwriting income, primarily due to a larger increase in reserves in 2008 compared with 2009, due to unfavorable market movements. Net realized gains (losses), which are excluded from life underwriting income, relate primarily to the change in the net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities and changes in the fair value of derivatives used to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee portfolio. During 2010, realized losses were primarily associated with an increasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities resulting substantially from the impact of falling interest rates. The 2010 realized loss was also impacted by a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and increasing GLB liabilities due to the annual collection of premium, offset by decreasing GLB liabilities due to rising equity markets and model enhancements. During 2009, realized gains associated with a decreasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities were almost entirely offset by a combination of a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and modeling changes. The residual realized loss for 2009 also included the impact of foreign exchange and changes in asset values. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008, which were primarily due to adverse financial market conditions. 67 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities $ 2,071 $ 1,985 $ 1,972 Short term investments 34 38 109 Equity securities 26 54 93 Other 44 48 (20) Gross investment income 2,175 2,125 2,154 Investment expenses (105) (94) (92) Net investment income $ 2,070 $ 2,031 $ 2,062 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased two percent in the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with 2009. Positive operating cash flows, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base, were partially offset by lower yields on new investments and short term securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments and unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 3.6 percent and 4.3 percent at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Average market yield on fixed maturities represents the weighted average yield to maturity of our fixed income portfolio based on the market prices of the holdings at that date. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 Average invested assets $ 48,044 $ 43,767 $ 41,502 Net investment income $ 2,070 $ 2,031 $ 2,062 Return on average invested assets 4.3% 4.6% 5.0% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an Other than temporary impairment (OTTI) charge in net income. For a discussion related to how we assess OTTI for all of our investments, including credit related OTTI, and the related impact on net income, refer to Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GLB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 68 Table of Contents The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses), as well a breakdown of our OTTI and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ 380 $ 973 $ 1,353 $ (41 ) $ 2,717 $ 2,676 Equity securities 84 (44 ) 40 (145 ) 213 68 Other 161 (35 ) 126 31 162 193 Subtotal 625 894 1,519 (155 ) 3,092 2,937 Derivatives Equity and fixed income derivatives 58 58 68 68 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (28 ) (28 ) 368 368 S&P put option and futures (150 ) (150 ) (363 ) (363 ) Fair value adjustment on other derivatives (19 ) (19 ) (93 ) (93 ) Subtotal derivatives (139 ) (139 ) (20 ) (20 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) (54 ) (54 ) (21 ) (21 ) Total gains (losses) $ 432 $ 894 $ 1,326 $ (196 ) $ 3,092 $ 2,896 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (46 ) $ 426 $ 380 $ (234 ) $ 193 $ (41 ) Equity securities 84 84 (26 ) (119 ) (145 ) Other (13 ) 174 161 (137 ) 168 31 Total investment portfolio gains (losses) $ (59 ) $ 684 $ 625 $ (397 ) $ 242 $ (155 ) Our net realized gains (losses) in the year ended December 31, 2010, included write downs of $59 million as a result of an other than temporary decline in fair value of certain securities. This compares with write downs of $397 million and $1.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in other net realized gains (losses) is a realized gain of $175 million related to the acquisition of Rain and Hail. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2010, our investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $151 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold these fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $53 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to recognize the associated deferred tax asset related to these fixed income investments as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized. We engage in a securities lending program which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in securities of high credit quality and liquidity, with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. Certain investments purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in an unrealized loss of $23 million at December 31, 2010. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value is temporary. 69 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 2008 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned entities $ (81 ) $ 39 $ (52 ) Noncontrolling interest expense 14 3 11 Federal excise and capital taxes 19 16 16 Other 32 27 (14 ) Other (income) expense $ (16 ) $ 85 $ (39 ) Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of investment funds, limited partnerships, partially owned investment companies, Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited, and Huatai Life Insurance Company of China, Limited, which are included in equity in net income of partially owned entities. Other (income) expense also includes certain federal excise and capital taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in publicly traded, investment grade fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA (with approximately one half invested in AAA securities), as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers and is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors, and issuers. Our Other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio and we provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer, and our Treasurer. We also have well established, strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. As part of the Companys fixed income diversification strategy, ACE has decided to hold certain additional securities to maturity. Because the Company has the intent to hold these securities to maturity, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $6.8 billion was made during 2010, from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. In 2009, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $704 million was made from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.7 years at December 31, 2010, and 2009. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010. We experienced net unrealized gains of $894 million in 2010, primarily due to continued tightening of credit spreads. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 37,539 $ 36,542 $ 39,525 $ 38,985 Fixed maturities held to maturity 9,461 9,501 3,561 3,481 Short term investments 1,983 1,983 1,667 1,667 48,983 48,026 44,753 44,133 Equity securities 692 666 467 398 Other investments 1,692 1,511 1,375 1,258 Total investments $ 51,367 $ 50,203 $ 46,595 $ 45,789 70 Table of Contents The fair value of our total investments increased $4.8 billion during 2010, primarily due to unrealized appreciation, the investing of operating cash flows, and the portfolios acquired in the 2010 corporate acquisitions. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Market Value Percentage of Total Market Value Percentage of Total Treasury $ 2,075 4% $ 2,068 5% Agency 2,015 4% 2,698 6% Corporate and asset backed securities 15,900 33% 13,537 30% Mortgage backed securities 12,362 25% 11,311 25% Municipal 2,449 5% 2,300 5% Non U.S. 12,199 25% 11,172 25% Short term investments 1,983 4% 1,667 4% Total $ 48,983 100% $ 44,753 100% AAA $ 23,718 48% $ 22,884 51% AA 4,714 10% 4,021 9% A 8,482 17% 7,461 17% BBB 5,487 11% 4,910 11% BB 3,357 7% 2,866 6% B 2,393 5% 2,029 5% Other 832 2% 582 1% Total $ 48,983 100% $ 44,753 100% 71 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the market value of our non U.S. fixed income portfolio by country/sovereign for non U.S. government securities at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value United Kingdom $ 972 Canada 886 Germany 404 Japan 379 France 193 Province of Ontario 192 Province of Quebec 147 Switzerland 142 Brazil 139 State of Queensland 109 Republic of Korea 102 Thailand 88 United Mexican States 86 Australia 72 Taiwan 65 State of New South Wales 62 New Zealand 58 State of Victoria 52 Peoples Republic of China 48 Austria 46 Malaysia 41 Egypt 37 State of Western Australia 36 Qatar 35 Province of British Columbia 33 Other Non U.S. Government 397 Non U.S. Government Securities 4,821 Non U.S. Corporate 7,378 Total $ 12,199 ACEs non U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency matched with the insurance liabilities of our non U.S. operations. We have 85 percent of our non U.S. fixed income portfolio denominated in G7 currencies. The average credit quality of our non U.S. fixed income securities is AA and 53 percent of our holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi government agencies. Our corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA two percent, A one percent, BBB 0.5 percent of the total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system. With respect to the $7.4 billion in non U.S. corporate fixed income securities in the table above, approximately $329 million relates to investments in Spain and Italy. Investments in Ireland and Portugal total $58 million. We have inconsequential corporate fixed income exposure to Greece. 72 Table of Contents The table below summarizes our largest exposures to corporate bonds by market value at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value General Electric Co $ 468 JP Morgan Chase & Co 451 Bank of America Corp 409 Citigroup Inc 330 Goldman Sachs Group Inc/The 305 Wells Fargo & Co 297 Verizon Communications Inc 296 Morgan Stanley 285 AT&T INC 240 HSBC Holdings Plc 234 Credit Suisse Group 195 Barclays PLC 181 Kraft Foods Inc 162 Comcast Corp 153 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 151 Lloyds Banking Group Plc 147 American Express Co 135 Time Warner Cable Inc 128 ConocoPhillips 125 UBS AG 116 Pfizer Inc 111 Anheuser Busch InBev NV 105 Dominion Resources Inc/VA 104 BP PLC 99 Banco Santander SA 95 Total $ 5,322 Mortgage backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed component of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, are provided below: Mortgage backed securities Market Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) Agency RMBS $ 9,700 $ $ $ $ $ 9,700 Non agency RMBS 337 20 21 48 812 1,238 Total RMBS 10,037 20 21 48 812 10,938 Commercial mortgage backed 1,386 21 14 3 1,424 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,423 $ 41 $ 35 $ 51 $ 812 $ 12,362 73 Table of Contents Mortgage backed securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) Agency RMBS $ 9,564 $ $ $ $ $ 9,564 Non agency RMBS 351 23 23 55 947 1,399 Total RMBS 9,915 23 23 55 947 10,963 Commercial mortgage backed 1,320 20 13 3 1,356 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,235 $ 43 $ 36 $ 58 $ 947 $ 12,319 Our mortgage backed securities are rated predominantly AAA and comprise approximately 25 percent of our fixed income portfolio. This compares with a 35 percent mortgage backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010. The minimum rating for our initial purchases of mortgage backed securities is AAA. Agency RMBS represent securities which have been issued by Federal agencies (Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) with implied or explicit government guarantees. These represent 89 percent of our total RMBS portfolio. With respect to our non agency RMBS, these are backed primarily by prime collateral and are broadly diversified in over 220,000 loans. This portfolios loan to value ratio is approximately 70 percent with an average Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score of 730. With this conservative loan to value ratio and subordinated collateral of 12 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 18 percent and real estate values would have to fall 19 percent from their levels at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, before principal is impaired. The foreclosure rate for ACEs non agency RMBS portfolio was nine percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010. Our commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 17,000 loans, and 79 percent of the portfolio was issued before 2006. The average loan to value ratio is approximately 68 percent with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 33 percent. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 41 percent and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than five percent from their levels at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, before principal is impaired. The foreclosure rate for ACEs CMBS portfolio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, was approximately 2.6 percent. Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. At December 31, 2010, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately 14 percent of our fixed income portfolio. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 650 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $72 million. We manage high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. The allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. Our high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. We monitor position limits daily through an internal compliance system. Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps and collateralized mortgage obligations) are not permitted in the high yield portfolio. 74 Table of Contents Reinsurance recoverable on ceded reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance $ 12,149 $ 12,745 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 722 850 Net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses $ 12,871 $ 13,595 Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits $ 281 $ 298 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decrease in net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses was primarily due to collections of reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses in the active operations during the year ended December 31, 2010. Asbestos and environmental (A&E) and other run off liabilities Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Reserving considerations For asbestos, ACE faces claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party at multiple sites. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, for direct policies only. 2010 2009 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,023 1,198 Newly reported 66 54 Closed or otherwise disposed 64 229 Open at end of year 1,025 1,023 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 3,371 4,704 Newly reported 133 196 Closed or otherwise disposed 172 1,529 Open at end of year 3,332 3,371 75 Table of Contents Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly lower in 2010, compared with 2009, due to a review in the prior year of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files; therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 Survival Ratios 2009 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 6.4 7.6 6.6 7.2 7.1 8.1 6.0 5.3 Environmental 2.4 3.5 2.8 3.9 2.9 4.4 3.1 4.0 Total 5.6 6.2 5.9 6.3 6.2 6.9 5.5 5.0 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2010 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims, and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year net survival ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to lower net payments for asbestos during 2010. Catastrophe management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe risk accumulation around the world. The following modeled loss information reflects ACEs in force portfolio at October 1, 2010, and reinsurance program at January 1, 2011. The table below shows our modeled annual aggregate pre tax probable maximum loss (PML), net of reinsurance, for 100 year and 250 year return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The table also shows corresponding pre tax industry losses for each of the return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes at December 31, 2010. For example, according to the model, for the 1 in 100 return period scenario, there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.182 billion (or five percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2010). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $136.196 billion. U.S. Hurricanes California Earthquakes 2010 2009 2010 2009 Modeled Annual Aggregate Net PML % of Total Shareholders Equity % of Total Shareholders Equity (in millions of U.S. dollars, except forpercentages) ACE Industry ACE ACE Industry ACE 1 in 100 $ 1,182 5 % $ 136,196 $ 1,128 $ 798 3 % $ 37,018 $ 731 1 in 250 $ 1,570 7 % $ 196,597 $ 1,439 $ 912 4 % $ 58,154 $ 895 The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 76 Table of Contents Natural catastrophe property reinsurance program ACEs core property catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary property operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. The first tower, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2011, for a period of one year, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage in one layer that provides $600 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. This core layer of the program has a single additional limit available for reinstatement post loss event on the same terms as the original limit. Our 2011 core North American catastrophe program has approximately the same limits in coverage as our 2010 program. We consider our retention to be approximately $500 million for our North American catastrophe reinsurance program but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other catastrophe programs purchased by individual business units. These other catastrophe programs have the potential to reduce our effective retention below $500 million. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by its strong credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds (the Calabash program). Under this coverage, we have $86 million part of $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $750 million. In addition, the Calabash program also provides the majority of $100 million of U.S. earthquake coverage excess of approximately $1.173 billion with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. The Calabash program does not have a reinstatement feature over its multi year period of coverage. The programs expected loss is kept the same each year by the annual adjustment, either up or down, of the attachment point based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Due to exposure change, the attachment for the Calabash program increased from $575 million in 2010 to $750 million in 2011, for the $86 million of wind protection and from approximately $961 million in 2010 to approximately $1.173 billion in 2011, for earthquake protection. The Calabash program expires in June 2012 and the next reset will occur in January 2012. The second tower is our international catastrophe program effective July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2011, covering losses arising outside the United States. At the last renewal we expanded the geographic scope of the coverage to include the states of Alaska and Hawaii in the first two core layers of this program. In addition, we raised the retention of our first reinsurance layer from $50 million to $75 million. Our first layer is now $75 million in excess of a $75 million retention with two reinstatements. This layer was 70 percent placed with reinsurers. Our second layer was 100 percent placed and provides $150 million in protection in excess of $150 million with one reinstatement. We also purchased a $150 million in excess of $300 million layer that covers Europe and worldwide earthquake exposure. Above these pillars of cover is an additional treaty that provides $50 million of protection with one reinstatement (Umbrella 1). However, Umbrella 1 may also be exhausted by certain property per risk losses so it is not certain that it will be available to us for a catastrophe event. In addition, we purchased another $50 million layer above Umbrella 1. With respect to the July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2011, treaty period, we also purchased certain underlying regional catastrophe covers for our ACE Overseas General and ACE Bermuda business units. These catastrophe covers include a Latin America and Caribbean cover ($65 million in excess of $10 million) an Australia, Africa, and Asia (excludes Japan) cover ($40 million in excess of $10 million) and a cover for local Japanese business (denominated in yen and approximately $40 million in excess of $15 million). Finally, we bought a layer of $25 million in excess of $50 million for our Australia, Africa, and Asia as well as Japanese exposures, with the underlying programs inuring to the benefit of this component. With respect to these four regional covers, we placed 55 percent of the layer with reinsurers, and each has two reinstatements. In summary, for our international catastrophe exposures, we purchased $550 million in limits for earthquake protection outside the contiguous United States, $550 million in limits for all perils Europe, and $400 million in limits for other perils in the rest of the world (excluding the contiguous United States). In comparison to last years program, we have increased the limits purchased for Europe by $69 million and for Japan wind by $72 million and Japan earthquake by $222 million. In addition, we increased our retention in Europe by approximately $31 million and in Japan by $34 million relative to last year. We regularly review our reinsurance protection and corresponding property catastrophe exposures. This may or may not lead to the purchase of additional reinsurance prior to a programs renewal date. In addition, prior to each renewal date, we consider how much, if any, coverage we intend to buy and we may make material changes to the current structure in light of various factors, including modeled PML assessment at various return periods, reinsurance pricing, our risk tolerance and exposures, and various other structuring considerations. 77 Table of Contents Crop insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and have conducted that business through an MGA subsidiary of Rain and Hail. As discussed under Acquisitions, on December 28, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail not previously owned by us. Prior to this transaction, ACE owned approximately 20 percent of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail. We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance business comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover revenue shortfalls or production losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. In July 2010, the RMA released a final version of a new SRA (the 2011 SRA), replacing the prior agreement which expired on June 30, 2010. The 2011 SRA applies to the 2011 Crop year, and therefore there is minimal impact from the new agreement on our 2010 financial results. Similar to the recently expired SRA, the 2011 SRA contains the pro rata and state stop loss provisions which continue to allow companies to limit the exposure of any one state or group of states on their underwriting results. Generally, it also continues to allow companies to selectively retain the more attractive risks while ceding the historically less profitable risks to the federal government. While the 2011 SRA does reduce the potential underwriting profit, it also decreases the maximum underwriting loss, compared with the prior version. Despite the potential underwriting profitability reduction, we believe the 2011 SRA allows for an acceptable rate of return in 2011. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarters and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. Premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. Prior to the acquisition of Rain and Hail, we regularly received reports relating to the previous crop year(s), resulting in adjustments to previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commissions. The adjustments were typically more significant in the first quarter of the year (annual first quarter settlement), compared with other periods. Following the Rain and Hail acquisition closing on December 28, 2010, we have access to such information sooner and as a result the more significant changes in estimate that occurred in the first quarter in prior years now occurs in the fourth quarter. Political Risk, Trade Credit, and Structured Trade Credit Political risk insurance is a specialized coverage that provides clients with protection against unexpected, catastrophic political or macroeconomic events, primarily in developing markets. We participate in this market through our wholly owned subsidiary Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd. (Sovereign), and through a unit of our London based ACE Global Markets operation. Sovereign is one of the worlds leading underwriters of political risk insurance and has a global portfolio spread across more than 100 countries. Its clients include financial institutions, national export credit agencies, leading multilateral agencies, and multinational corporations. ACE Global Markets writes political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit business out of underwriting offices in London, Hamburg, New York, Los Angeles, and Singapore. 78 Table of Contents Our political risk insurance provides protection to commercial lenders against defaults on cross border loans, insulates investors against equity losses, and protects exporters against defaults on contracts. Commercial lenders, our largest client segment, are covered for missed scheduled loan repayments due to acts of confiscation, expropriation or nationalization by the host government; currency inconvertibility or exchange transfer restrictions, or war or other acts of political violence. In addition, in the case of loans to government owned entities or loans that have a government guarantee, political risk policies cover scheduled payments against risks of nonpayment or non honoring of government guarantees. Equity investors and corporations receive similar coverage to that of lenders, except they are protected against financial losses, inability to repatriate dividends, and physical damage to their operations caused by covered events. Our export contracts protection provides coverage for both exporters and their financing banks against the risk of contract frustration due to government actions, including non payment by government entities. ACE Global Markets trade credit and structured trade credit businesses cover losses due to insolvency, protracted default, and political risk perils including export and license cancellation. It provides trade credit coverage to larger companies that have sophisticated credit risk management systems, with exposure to multiple customers and that have the ability to self insure losses up to a certain level through excess of loss coverage. Its structured trade credit business provides coverage to trade finance banks, exporters, and trading companies, with exposure to trade related financing instruments. We have implemented structural features in our policies in order to control potential losses within the political risk, trade credit, and structured credit businesses. These include basic loss sharing features that include co insurance and deductibles, and in the case of trade credit, the use of non qualifying losses that drop smaller exposures deemed too difficult to assess. Ultimate loss severity is also limited by using waiting periods to enable the insurer and insured to agree on recovery strategies, and the subrogation of the rights of the lender/exporter to the insurer following a claim. We have the option to pay claims over the original loan payment schedule, rather than in a lump sum in order to provide insureds and the insurer additional time to remedy problems and work towards full recoveries. It is important to note that political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit policies are named peril conditional contracts, not financial guarantees, and claims are only paid after conditions and warranties are fulfilled. Political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit insurance do not cover currency devaluations, bond defaults, any form of derivatives, movements in overseas equity markets, transactions deemed illegal, or situations where corruption or misrepresentation has occurred, or debt that is not legally enforceable. In addition to assessing and mitigating potential exposure on a policy by policy basis, we also have specific risk management measures in place to manage overall exposure and risk. These measures include placing country and individual transaction limits based on country risk and credit ratings, combined single loss limits on multi country policies, the use of reinsurance protection, and regular modeling and stress testing of the portfolio. Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, ACE Limiteds cash flows depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. We anticipate that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) should be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2011. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and available credit facilities. Refer to Credit Facilities below. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Our existing credit facilities have remaining terms expiring between 2012 and 2014 and require that we maintain certain financial covenants, all of which we met at December 31, 2010. Should any of our existing credit providers experience financial difficulty, we may be required to replace credit sources, possibly in a difficult market. There has also been recent consolidation in the banking industry which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing any of our credit facilities. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with 79 Table of Contents the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such duration tends to be longer. Given the current low interest rate environment, at December 31, 2010, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.7 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.5 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables, or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investments, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies. During 2010, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payments of dividends declared on our Common Shares with our net cash flows. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. ACE Tempest Life Re paid dividends of $200 million in 2010 and $350 million in 2009. ACE Bermuda dividends were nil in 2010 and 2009. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. The U.S. insurance subsidiaries of ACE INA may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Debt issued by ACE INA is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate of future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for 2010 and 2009. The operating cash flows reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $3.5 billion in 2010, compared with $3.3 billion in 2009. Net loss and loss expenses paid were $7.4 billion in 2010, compared with $6.9 billion in 2009. Operating cash flow increased in 2010, in part due to net collections of insurance and reinsurance balances. Operating cash flow in 2009 included higher than typical net claim payments in connection with prior year catastrophes and other individual large losses, and an increase in tax payments. In addition, during 2009, operating cash flow was adversely impacted by the return of collateral collected in 2008. 80 Table of Contents Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.2 billion in 2010, compared with $3.2 billion in 2009. Net investing activities for the indicated periods were related primarily to net purchases of fixed maturities and for 2010 included the acquisitions of Rain and Hail and Jerneh Insurance Berhad. Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $732 million in 2010, compared with net cash flows used for financing activities of $321 million in 2009. Net cash flows from/used for financing activities in 2010 and 2009, included dividends paid on our Common Shares of $435 million and $388 million, respectively. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2010, included net proceeds of $699 million from the issuance of long term debt, $1 billion in reverse repurchase agreements, and $300 million in credit facility borrowings. This was partially offset by repayment of $659 million in debt and share repurchases settled in 2010 of $235 million. For 2009, net cash flows used for financing activities included net proceeds from the issuance of $500 million in long term debt and the net repayment of debt and reverse repurchase agreements of $466 million. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. From time to time, we utilize reverse repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. We use these instruments on a limited basis to address short term cash timing differences without disrupting our investment portfolio holdings and settle the transactions with future operating cash flows. At December 31, 2010, there were $1 billion in reverse repurchase agreements outstanding (refer to Short term Debt). In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have agreements with a bank provider which implemented two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2010, and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Short term debt $ 1,300 $ 161 Long term debt 3,358 3,158 Total debt 4,658 3,319 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Total shareholders equity 22,974 19,667 Total capitalization $ 27,941 $ 23,295 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 16.7% 14.2% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 17.8% 15.6% Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have increased temporarily due to the increase in short term debt, as discussed below. We expect that these ratios will decline over the next six to nine months as we repay the short term debt. We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. 81 Table of Contents The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 Balance, beginning of year $ 19,667 Net income 3,108 Dividends declared on Common Shares (443 ) Change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments, net of tax 742 Repurchase of shares (303 ) Other movements, net of tax 203 Balance, end of year $ 22,974 Total shareholders equity increased $3.3 billion in 2010, primarily due to net income of $3.1 billion and the change in net unrealized appreciation on investments of $742 million. Short term Debt At December 31, 2010, in connection with the financing of the Rain and Hail acquisition, short term debt includes reverse repurchase agreements totaling $1 billion. In addition, $300 million in borrowings against ACEs revolving credit facility were outstanding at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, short term debt consisted of a five year term loan which we repaid in December 2010. Long term Debt Our total long term debt increased by $200 million during the year to $3.4 billion and is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In November 2010, ACE INA issued $700 million of 2.6 percent senior notes due November 2015. These senior unsecured notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by the Company and they rank equally with all of the Companys other senior obligations. In April 2008, as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition, ACE INA entered into a $450 million floating interest rate syndicated term loan agreement due April 2013. Simultaneously, the Company entered into a swap transaction that had the economic effect of fixing the interest rate for the term of the loan. In December 2010, ACE repaid this loan and exited the swap. In December 2008, ACE INA entered into a $66 million dual tranche floating interest rate term loan agreement. The first tranche, a $50 million three year term loan due December 2011, had a floating interest rate. Simultaneously, the Company entered into a swap transaction that had the economic effect of fixing the interest rate for the term of the loan. In December 2010, ACE repaid this loan and exited the swap. The second tranche, a $16 million nine month term loan, was due and repaid in September 2009. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Common Shares Our Common Shares had a par value of CHF 30.57 each at December 31, 2010. At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2010, the Companys shareholders approved a par value reduction in an aggregate Swiss franc amount, pursuant to a formula, equal to $1.32 per share, which we refer to as the Base Annual Dividend. The Base Annual Dividend is payable in four installments, provided that each of the Swiss franc installments will be 82 Table of Contents adjusted pursuant to the formula so that the actual Swiss franc par value reduction amount for each installment will equal $0.33, subject to an aggregate upward adjustment, which we refer to as the Dividend Cap, for the four installments of 50 percent of the Base Annual Dividend. Application of the formula means that the Swiss franc amount of each installment will be determined in advance of distribution while the U.S. dollar value of the installment will remain $0.33 unless and until the Dividend Cap is reached. Par value reduction that would otherwise exceed the Dividend Cap will be reduced to equal the Swiss franc amount remaining available under the Dividend Cap and the U.S. dollar amount distributed will be the then applicable U.S. dollar equivalent of that Swiss franc amount. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends (other than by reductions in par value) may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The Board of Directors of a Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with Swiss statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Swiss Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2010. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 421 $ 143 $ 60 $ 23 $ 195 Purchase obligations 425 108 182 91 44 Limited partnerships funding commitments 753 323 365 65 Operating leases 397 75 119 83 120 Short term debt 1,300 1,300 Long term debt 3,358 1,646 1,712 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,090 207 413 351 1,119 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 9,053 2,156 1,139 2,259 3,499 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,391 9,003 9,727 5,639 13,022 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 3,982 246 392 322 3,022 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 50,426 $ 11,405 $ 11,258 $ 8,220 $ 19,543 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits: The liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, was $139 million at December 31, 2010. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income 83 Table of Contents tax expense. At December 31, 2010, we had $19 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $351 million and contract holder deposit funds of $70 million at December 31, 2010. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through February 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. 84 Table of Contents Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide collateral, which can be in the form of LOCs. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and to provide underwriting capacity as funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, and expiry date at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine(1) Usage Expiry Date Syndicated Letter of Credit Facility $ 1,000 $ 574 Nov. 2012 Revolving Credit/LOC Facility(2) 500 370 Nov. 2012 Bilateral Letter of Credit Facility 500 500 Sept. 2014 Funds at Lloydss Capital Facilities(3) 400 340 Dec. 2015 Total $ 2,400 $ 1,784 (1)Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2)May also be used for LOCs. (3)Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488 (see discussion below). In November 2010, we entered into four letter of credit facility agreements which collectively permit the issuance of up to $400 million of letters of credit. We expect that most of the LOCs issued under the LOC agreements will be used to support the ongoing Funds at Lloyds requirements of Syndicate 2488, but LOCs may also be used for other general corporate purposes. It is anticipated that our commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, statutory liabilities reported by variable annuity guarantee reinsurance clients, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business, and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2010. These covenants include: (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $13.8 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2010, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $14.5 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $21.6 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.167 to 1, which is below the maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.35 to 1 as described in (ii) above. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our internet site, www.acegroup.com, 85 Table of Contents also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab but such information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal and interest. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings of ACE fall to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2010, a one notch downgrade of our S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through writing the GLB and GMDB products, we are exposed to volatility in the equity and credit markets, as well as interest rates and the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed income securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income portfolio is classified as available for sale. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $7.9 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore, have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2010. Our policies to address these risks in 2010 were not materially different from 2009. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. 86 Table of Contents Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2010 and 2009, on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 48,983 $ 44,753 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,806 $ 1,623 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.7% 3.6% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Although our debt and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2010 and 2009, on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of debt obligations $ 5,522 $ 3,905 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 282 $ 241 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 5.1% 6.2% Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Fair value of equity securities $ 692 $ 467 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 69 $ 47 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 87 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,850 $ 3,895 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 16.8% 19.8% Pre tax impact on shareholders equity of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 332 $ 336 Reinsurance of GMDB and GLB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the benefit reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GLB. The benefit reserves are calculated in accordance with the provisions of Topic 944, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GLB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative for accounting purposes. The FVL established for a GLB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the benefit reserves. Changes in the FVL, net of associated changes in the calculated benefit reserves, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views its variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small, at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. At December 31, 2010, management established benefit reserves based on the benefit ratio calculated using assumptions reflecting managements best estimate of the future performance of the variable annuity line of business. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the benefit reserves. The benefit reserves are based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk, the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Managements best estimate reflected a judgment that the equity markets will exhibit sub par growth over the next several years. Management regularly examines both quantitative and qualitative analysis and for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, determined that no change to the benefit ratio was warranted. The benefit ratio used to establish the benefit reserves at December 31, 2010, has averaged less than 1/4 standard deviation from the calculated benefit ratios, averaging the periodic results from the time the benefit ratio was changed during the first quarter of 2009 until December 31, 2010. Topic 944 requires ACE to regularly evaluate estimates used and adjust the liability balance if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. ACE evaluates its estimates regularly and management uses judgment to determine the extent to which the assumptions underlying the benefit ratio calculation used to establish benefit reserves should be adjusted. The benefit ratio will be calculated based on managements expectation for the short term and long term performance of the variable annuity guarantee liability. Managements quantitative analysis includes a review of the differential between the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date and the benefit ratio calculated on subsequent dates. The differential is measured in terms of the standard deviation of the distribution of benefit ratios (reflecting 1,000 stochastic scenarios) calculated on subsequent dates. 88 Table of Contents The benefit reserves and FVL calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk, and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The tables below show the sensitivity, at December 31, 2010, of the benefit reserves and FVL associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes only those instruments owned at the reporting date, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% 30% 40% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 49 $ 14 $ (42 ) $ (134 ) $ (266 ) $ (446) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 208 108 (16 ) (186 ) (411 ) (656 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (123 ) (6 ) 112 232 355 480 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 134 $ 116 $ 54 $ (88 ) $ (322 ) $ (622 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 36 $ $(59) $ (155 ) $ (258 ) $ (432 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 141 (185 ) (442 ) (763 ) (1,072 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (117 ) 119 240 363 489 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 60 $ $ (125) $ (357) $ (658) $ (1,015 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 20 $ (17 ) $ (81 ) $ (182 ) $ (329 ) $ (532 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL (4 ) (212 ) (492 ) (812 ) (1,151 ) (1,488 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (111 ) 7 127 249 373 499 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (95 ) $ (222 ) $ (446 ) $ (745 ) $ (1,107 ) $ (1,521 ) Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables AA rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in FVL 46 (60 ) (12 ) (1 ) (15 ) 15 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value 4 (4 ) Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 46 $ (60 ) $ (12 ) $ (1 ) $ (11 ) $ 11 Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions Mortality (in millions of U.S. dollars) +20% +10% 10% 20% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (35 ) $ (18 ) $ 19 $ 39 (Increase)/decrease in FVL 17 9 (9 ) (18 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (18 ) $ (9 ) $ 10 $ 21 Lapses (in millions of U.S. dollars) +50% +25% 25% 50% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 53 $ 29 $ (37 ) $ (82 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 138 79 (106 ) (237 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 191 $ 108 $ (143 ) $ (319 ) Annuitization (in millions of U.S. dollars) +50% +25% 25% 50% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (24 ) $ (13 ) $ 16 $ 35 (Increase)/decrease in FVL (112 ) (61 ) 52 103 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (136 ) $ (74 ) $ 68 $ 138 89 Table of Contents The above tables assume benefit reserves and FVL using the benefit ratio calculated at December 31, 2010. Additionally, the above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets, we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve, we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in AA rated credit spreads (AA rated credit spreads are a proxy for both ACEs own credit spreads and the credit spreads of the ceding insurers), impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2010, market levels. The above sensitivities are not directly additive because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the benefit reserves and FVL is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the benefit reserves and the FVL as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. Additionally, actual sensitivity of our benefit reserves, FVL, and net income may differ from those disclosed in the tables above due to differences between short term market movements and management judgment regarding the long term assumptions implicit in our benefit ratio. Furthermore, the sensitivities above could vary by multiples of the sensitivities in the tables above. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited is the Swiss incorporated holding company of the ACE Group of Companies. ACE opened its business office in Bermuda in 1985 and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. ACE Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the ACE Group of Companies, ACE, the Company, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 170 countries. We serve the P&C insurance and reinsurance needs of businesses of all sizes in a broad range of industries. We also provide specialized insurance products such as personal accident, supplemental health, and life insurance to individuals in select countries. At December 31, 2010, ACE had total assets of $83 billion and shareholders equity of $23 billion. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. Our insurance and reinsurance operations generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are substantially held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Acquisitions On December 28, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) not previously owned by us for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. Prior to this transaction, ACE owned approximately 20 percent of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail. Headquartered in Johnston, Iowa, Rain and Hail has served Americas farmers since 1919, providing comprehensive multiple peril crop and crop/hail insurance protection to customers in the U.S. and Canada. We intend to operate Rain and Hail as a unit of our ACE Westchester division in the Insurance North American segment. On December 1, 2010, we acquired 100 percent of Jerneh Insurance Berhad, a general insurance company in Malaysia that had been majority owned by Jerneh Asia Berhad, an investment holding company listed on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The acquisition price was approximately $218 million in cash. On October 26, 2010, we announced that we had signed a definitive purchase agreement (the purchase agreement) to acquire New York Lifes Hong Kong and Korea life insurance operations for approximately $425 million in cash. The purchase agreement with New York Life was amended to allow for separate closings for the Hong Kong and Korea operations. On February 1, 2011, we acquired New York Lifes Korea operations for approximately $75 million in cash. The Hong Kong portion of the transaction is currently expected to close early in 2011. 35 Table of Contents Market Conditions We are observing typical soft market behavior as prices are continuing to decrease worldwide, along with increased competitive terms and conditions. Globally, the second half of 2010 was more competitive than the first half and relative to the rest of the world, the soft market conditions are more pronounced in the U.S., Bermuda and the London wholesale markets. As a result of adherence to our strict underwriting standards, new business writings for North American retail commercial P&C decreased significantly in 2010, compared with 2009. We are writing less new business and maintaining our renewals. Retentions were up particularly in those lines of business where more than price mattered. New business premiums in our international retail P&C business increased in 2010, compared with 2009, driven largely by Asia and Latin America. New business writings decreased in our London wholesale business. Our aviation business, in particular, shrank significantly due to competitive conditions. Our Global Reinsurance segment continues to experience competitive conditions, reporting premium declines during the January 1 renewal period on property catastrophe and property per risk business, while growth in international casualty was offset by reduced U.S. casualty. A&H premium increased modestly worldwide, with our international A&H business experiencing growth driven by Asia and Latin America, partially offset by decreases in our Combined Insurance business. We believe our international A&H business will continue to improve through 2011. We expect our Combined Insurance premiums to continue to decrease through 2011, given that our business is primarily concentrated in regions still emerging from recession the United States and Western Europe. Additionally, Combineds business in the U.K. and Ireland has been impacted by changes in regulatory environment as regulators in these two countries have adopted a new stance regarding sales practices. This new stance has resulted in a need for us to re train our agents and re engineer our processes. We put these two operations on a sales moratorium while we address these issues. Ireland is back in operation and in the U.K., the moratorium is continuing. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including long tail asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; future policy benefits reserves; the valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA; the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; the valuation of our investment portfolio and assessment of other than temporary impairments (OTTI); the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed living benefits (GLB); and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses Overview and key data As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provisions for claims that have been reported but are unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for obligations on claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be potentially insufficient). Loss reserves also include an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2010, our gross unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.4 billion and our net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves 36 Table of Contents were $25.2 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for the time value of money. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry net discounted reserves of $69 million. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable(1) Net Losses Balance, beginning of year $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 $ 37,176 $ 12,935 $ 24,241 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,855 3,276 7,579 11,141 3,719 7,422 Losses and loss expenses paid (11,279 ) (3,866 ) (7,413 ) (11,093 ) (4,145 ) (6,948 ) Other (including foreign exchange translation) (101 ) 6 (107 ) 559 236 323 Losses and loss expenses acquired 133 (12 ) 145 Balance, end of year $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 (1) Net of provision for uncollectible reinsurance The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves (including loss expense reserves) segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 16,899 $ 5,951 $ 10,948 $ 17,307 $ 6,664 $ 10,643 IBNR reserves 20,492 6,198 14,294 20,476 6,081 14,395 Total $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 37 Table of Contents The following table segregates loss reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009, by three broad line of business groupings: property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H). In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are partially included in IBNR and partially included in loss expenses. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 2,871 $ 1,325 $ 1,546 $ 3,149 $ 1,600 $ 1,549 Loss expenses 234 62 172 260 81 179 IBNR reserves 2,053 814 1,239 2,028 815 1,213 Subtotal 5,158 2,201 2,957 5,437 2,496 2,941 Casualty Case reserves 9,203 2,700 6,503 9,506 3,177 6,329 Loss expenses 4,034 1,733 2,301 3,773 1,661 2,112 IBNR reserves 17,704 5,132 12,572 17,777 5,110 12,667 Subtotal 30,941 9,565 21,376 31,056 9,948 21,108 A&H Case reserves 530 131 399 588 144 444 Loss expenses 27 27 31 1 30 IBNR reserves 735 252 483 671 156 515 Subtotal 1,292 383 909 1,290 301 989 Total Case reserves 12,604 4,156 8,448 13,243 4,921 8,322 Loss expenses 4,295 1,795 2,500 4,064 1,743 2,321 IBNR reserves 20,492 6,198 14,294 20,476 6,081 14,395 Total $ 37,391 $ 12,149 $ 25,242 $ 37,783 $ 12,745 $ 25,038 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for high excess casualty claims, A&E claims, claims from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for our various product lines each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methods are developed, or as laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments may differ from the estimate of the ultimate liabilities made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient, or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we discuss below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, and where we have sufficient information, our claims personnel establish case reserves as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is, by definition, limited actual information to form the case reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may include the use and interpretation of various standard actuarial reserving 38 Table of Contents methods that place reliance on the extrapolation of actual historical data, loss development patterns, and industry data as appropriate. The estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to reflect the impact of more contemporary and subjective factors, both qualitative and quantitative. Among some of these factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, the legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses, and from these estimates, a single actuarial central estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation) or product lines where the nature of the claims experience and or availability of the data prevent application of such methods. In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluations that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods but are based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact. Standard actuarial reserving methods The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made, where appropriate, to how consideration in method selection impacted 2010 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence based on historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may subdivide product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data are aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred accident year or report year, for example) and annual or quarterly development periods. Implicit in the standard actuarial methods that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the pattern by which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year and second, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting). The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected after consideration of a number of factors, including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening rate changes, premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations for the product line and external environment as noted above. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year is initially established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by multiplying the expected ultimate loss ratio by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used as the basis for the actuarial central estimate for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet deemed sufficiently credible to warrant consideration in the selection of ultimate losses. The expected loss ratio for a given origin year may be modified over time if the underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our selected paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This most commonly occurs for relatively new product lines that have limited historical data or for high severity/low frequency portfolios where our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the selected loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify differences between actual and expected loss emergence. These methods tend to be utilized for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss 39 Table of Contents development methods which are typically utilized at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of actuarial methods will also be impacted by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience tends to be more frequency driven. For these product types, standard actuarial methods generally work well in determining loss reserve levels, as the loss experience is often credible, given a sufficient history and volume of claims experience. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience tends to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have considerably curtailed) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, we typically supplement the standard actuarial methods with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Determining managements best estimate Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. We perform an actuarial reserve review for each product line at least once a year. At the conclusion of each review, we establish an actuarial central estimate. The process to select the actuarial central estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the central estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial central estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience may not have sufficient credibility to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance may be placed upon the expected loss ratio method until the experience matures and becomes credible. Managements best estimate is developed from the actuarial central estimate after collaboration with actuarial, underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and unit senior management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACE Limiteds Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to be the best estimate of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry information where required; historical variability of actual loss emergence compared with expected loss emergence; perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate ranges of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Such ranges are generally not a true reflection of the potential difference between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual prior period development reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements relates in part to events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.3 billion and represents six percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2010. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1, for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. Additionally, each quarter for most product lines, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we may alter the timing of our product line reserve studies. 40 Table of Contents Finally, loss reserve studies are performed annually by external third parties and the findings are used to test the reasonability of our internal findings. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Consolidated Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail and long tail business Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are typically known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written by ACE. There are some exceptions on certain product lines or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly uncertain and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting and development pattern for these product lines, the uncertainty associated with our estimate of ultimate losses for any particular accident period diminishes relatively quickly as actual loss experience emerges. We typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development for a given origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves an assessment by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and estimated losses immediately following an event and then subsequent revisions of the estimated losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2010 origin year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established for the non catastrophe exposures using a combination of the expected loss ratio method and methods that incorporate actual loss emergence. As the year progressed, we also adjusted these reserves for large non catastrophe loss activity that we considered to be greater than the historical averages. Reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2010. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe losses requires initial expected loss ratios by product line adjusted for actual experience during the 2010 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial projections of prior years losses, past and expected future loss and exposure trends, rate adequacy for new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance coverage and costs. We also considered our view of the impact of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more subjective relative to other factors. Since there is some degree of random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions did not differ significantly relative to prior years. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of the changes made in the 2010 calendar year arose from origin years 2006 2009. Specifically, the Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life segments experienced $137 million, $131 million, $34 million, and $9 million of favorable prior period development, respectively, primarily due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2006 2009 origin years. In the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2006 2009 origin years in response to the latest reported loss data rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. In the Global Reinsurance segment, the prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2004 2008 origin years principally in response to the latest reported loss data, rather than any significant changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to short tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2010, refer to Prior Period Development. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to report and settle/close. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, D&O, and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is sometimes too immature and lacking in credibility to rely upon for reserving 41 Table of Contents purposes. Where this is the case, in our reserve analysis we rely on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that we believe reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development, where available. For such product lines, actual loss experience may differ from industry loss statistics as well as loss experience for previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming that historical paid and reported loss development patterns for older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on recent origin years. For example, changes over time in the processes and procedures for establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can alter the development of paid and reported losses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent to which historical loss experience is relied upon to support changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. Where appropriate, we then supplemented this with loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson approaches to provide for claims that have been reported but are too immature to develop an individual claims estimate and also for pure IBNR. The assumptions used for these lines of business are updated over time to reflect new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2010 origin year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line expected loss ratios that contemplated assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length and volume of history and homogeneity afford credibility. For those portfolios where we feel that our data lacks credibility, our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the early development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the expected loss ratio method for the 2010 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence relative to expected loss emergence for most individual product lines. Recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our expectations. While we do not yet believe that this favorable experience is sufficiently credible to be fully reflected in our booked ultimate losses for immature years, we have been giving increasing weight to emerging experience as origin years mature and the loss emergence gains credibility. The process to develop 2010 origin year reserves for our long tail casualty business relies heavily on prior origin year reserves and historical loss ratios adjusted to current rate and loss trend levels. When estimating the ultimate loss levels for these prior origin years for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance no changes of significance were made to the loss development patterns, however, we have revised historical loss and exposure trend assumptions to reflect emerged frequency and severity trends observed in both our internal data and available industry data. In general, this has resulted in lower loss trend assumptions. While we have not assumed that these reduced loss trends continued in 2010, we have reflected this information in the process to derive expected loss ratio assumptions from historical data adjusted to 2010 origin year levels. 42 Table of Contents To the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2010 differed from our expectation for the more recent origin years, the deviation was not typically seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to fully reflect in our booked ultimate loss selections or the actuarial assumptions underlying the reserve reviews. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. Our booked reserves for origin years 2007 2009 include reserves for what we believe to be our exposure to claims related to the credit crunch and recent financial frauds (primarily E&O and D&O) based on information received to date. For more mature origin years, typically 2006 and prior, we gave meaningful weight to indicated ultimates derived from methods that rely on the paid and reported loss development patterns based on historical experience where sufficient credibility existed (2005 and prior for our longest tailed lines). For those lines where the historical experience lacked credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). The assumptions used to project ultimate loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until our data is deemed sufficiently credible. The prior period development in 2010 for long tail lines of business comprised several main components. First, we experienced favorable prior period development on a number of product lines where actual loss emergence was lower than expected and or increased weighting was given to experience based methods as relevant origin years mature (typically 2003 2006). In particular, this included national accounts, D&O and E&O product lines in Insurance North American ($159 million favorable), casualty and financial lines in Insurance Overseas General for accident year 2006 and prior ($241 million favorable) and professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice product lines in Global Reinsurance ($72 million favorable). Second, we experienced adverse development on 2007 and subsequent years arising from specific case development on excess casualty businesses ($91 million adverse) and an increasing trend in frequency and allocated claims expenses on small and middle market workers compensation ($30 million adverse). Third, we experienced adverse development from inactive product lines including Westchester and Brandywine run off operations ($114 million adverse) and middle market workers compensation ($18 million adverse). The causes for the Westchester and Brandywine operations are described further below while the development on the run off middle market workers compensation arose from higher than expected medical costs on accident years 2000 and prior. For each reserve action taken, the change was generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2010 that differed from the expected loss emergence and was deemed significant enough to warrant revising the relevant projection. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to long tail prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2010, refer to Prior Period Development. Sensitivity to underlying assumptions While we believe that our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2010, is adequate, new information or emerging trends that differ from our assumptions may lead to future development of losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methods and is not a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development patterns for workers compensation business, the development factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for the companys current exposure requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, adjusting ground up ultimate losses by a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $290 million, either positive or negative, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This represents an impact of 9.2 percent relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.2 billion. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $325 million and gross limits of up to $150 million) and D&O and other 43 Table of Contents professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $125 million and gross limits of up to $50 million). Due to the layer of exposure covered, the expected frequency for this book is very low. As a result of the low frequency/high severity nature of the book, a small difference in the actual vs. expected claim frequency, either positive or negative, could result in a material change to the projected ultimate loss if such change in claim frequency was related to a policy where close to maximum limits were deployed. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty in the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines for accident years 2001 2008 by approximately $246 million. This movement is relative to recorded net IBNR reserves of $1.5 billion and net total reserves of $2.1 billion for these years. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reported development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns due to the sometimes low credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development patterns can thus have a significant impact on the selected ultimate net losses and loss expenses. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $298 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2010, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $830 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2009, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $788 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages or products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. 44 Table of Contents We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss. We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2010, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $807 million, compared with the $830 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid loss and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. During 2010, ACE conducted its annual internal, ground up review of its consolidated A&E liabilities as at December 31, 2009. As a result of the internal review, the Company increased its net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, by $84 million (net of reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company (NICO)), while the gross loss reserves increased by $247 million. In addition, the Company increased gross loss reserves for Westchester Specialtys A&E and other liabilities by $23 million, and net loss reserves increased by $5 million. Our A&E reserves are not discounted for GAAP reporting and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include the current legal environment; specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims; assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims; assumptions regarding the ability to allocate liability among defendants (including bankruptcy trusts) and other insurers; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage; whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants; and, the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. For more information refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities and to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Future policy benefits reserves We issue contracts in our Insurance Overseas General and Life segments that are classified as long duration. These contracts generally include accident and supplemental health products, term and whole life products, endowment products, and annuities. In accordance with GAAP, we establish reserves for contracts determined to be long duration based on approved 45 Table of Contents actuarial methods that include assumptions related to expenses, mortality, morbidity, persistency, and investment yields with a factor for adverse deviation. These assumptions are locked in at the inception of the contract meaning we use our original assumptions throughout the life of the policy and do not subsequently modify them unless we deem the reserves to be inadequate. The future policy benefit reserve balance is regularly evaluated for a premium deficiency. If experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. Valuation of value of business acquired (VOBA) and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and VOBA As part of the Combined Insurance acquisition, we established an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represented the fair value of the future profits of the in force contracts. The valuation of VOBA is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated future policy benefit reserve. The most significant input in this calculation is the discount rate used to arrive at the present value of the net cash flows. We amortize deferred policy acquisition costs associated with long duration contracts and VOBA (collectively policy acquisition costs) over the estimated life of the contracts in proportion to premium revenue recognized. The estimated life is established at the inception of the contracts or upon acquisition and is based on current persistency assumptions. Policy acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, including investment income. Unrecoverable costs, if any, are expensed in the period this determination is made. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) reinsurance protection. We discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts, as a matter of policy, in 2002. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must demonstrate that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, qualitative and quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002. These contracts principally provided severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and were accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the NICO contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have significantly curtailed writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively 46 Table of Contents few insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $506 million of net premiums earned in 2010, comprised of $392 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $114 million of excess quota share treaties), a small portion of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. These have been deemed to have met risk transfer requirements. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recoverable to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, and the duration of our recoverables may be longer than the duration of our direct exposures. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and 47 Table of Contents payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) ReinsuranceRecoverableson Lossesand LossExpenses Recoverables(net ofUsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 9,882 $ 8,563 $ 216 Reinsurers not rated 420 362 107 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 215 202 123 Captives 1,839 433 41 Other structured settlements and pools 1,045 1,044 43 Total $ 13,401 $ 10,604 $ 530 At December 31, 2010, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2010, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $121 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairments (OTTI) Each quarter, we review our securities in an unrealized loss position (impaired securities), including fixed maturities, securities lending collateral, equity securities, and other investments, to identify those impaired securities to be specifically evaluated for a potential OTTI. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, OTTI could be material to our financial condition and operating results. Refer to Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the process by which we evaluate investments for OTTI. Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2010, our net deferred tax asset was $769 million. (Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. The valuation allowance is also based on maintaining our ability and intent to hold our U.S. available for sale fixed maturities to recovery. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component prove to be incorrect, or future market events occur that prevent our ability to hold our U.S. fixed maturities to recovery, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2010, the valuation allowance of $31 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income and the inability of ACE Group Holdings and its subsidiaries to utilize foreign tax credits. Fair value measurements The provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements, define fair value as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants and establish a three level valuation hierarchy in which inputs into valuation techniques used to measure fair value are classified. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 inputs). Inputs in Level 1 are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 includes inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include, among other items, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as interest rates and yield curves. Level 3 inputs are unobservable and reflect our judgments about assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. ACE makes decisions regarding the categorization of assets or liabilities within the valuation hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine respective fair values at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, transfers between levels within the valuation hierarchy are determined on the same basis. While the Company obtains values for the majority of the investment securities it holds from one or more pricing services, it is ultimately managements responsibility to determine whether the values obtained and recorded in the financial statements are representative of fair value. We periodically update our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services in order to validate that the prices obtained from those services are consistent with the GAAP definition of fair value as an exit price. Based on our understanding of the methodologies used by our pricing services, all applicable investments have been valued in accordance with GAAP valuation principles. We do not typically adjust prices obtained from pricing services. At December 31, 2010, our Level 3 assets represented four percent of our assets that are measured at fair value and two percent of our total assets. Our Level 3 liabilities represented 11 percent of our liabilities that are measured at fair value and 49 Table of Contents one percent of our total liabilities at December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we transferred $39 million out of our Level 3 assets. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the valuation techniques and inputs used to determine fair values for our financial instruments carried or disclosed at fair value by valuation hierarchy (Levels 1, 2, and 3) as well as a roll forward of Level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Guaranteed living benefits (GLB) derivatives Under life reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assumed the risk of GLBs associated with variable annuity (VA) contracts. We ceased writing this business in 2007. Our GLB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. Accordingly, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with the provisions of ASC Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance, (Topic 944) related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and benefit reserves is reflected in Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in Net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We intend to hold these derivative contracts to maturity (i.e., the expiration of the underlying liabilities through lapse, annuitization, death, or expiration of the reinsurance contract). At maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero (excluding cumulative hedge gains or losses) because, over time, the insurance liability will be increased or decreased to equal our obligation. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates, equity indices, and other assumptions on the fair value of GLBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. Refer to Note 2 j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. The fair value of GLB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model, which includes current market information and estimates of policyholder behavior from the perspective of a theoretical market participant that would assume these liabilities. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including interest rates, current account value, market volatility, expected annuitization rates and other policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon additional experience obtained related to policyholder behavior and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and the guaranteed minimum income benefit (GMIB) annuitization rates. Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodologies to determine rates applied to each treaty are comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. In general, the base lapse function assumes low lapse rates (ranging from about 1 percent to 6 percent per annum) during the surrender charge period of the variable annuity contract, followed by a spike lapse rate (ranging from about 10 percent to 30 percent per annum) in the year immediately following the surrender charge period, and then reverting to an ultimate lapse rate (generally around 10 percent per annum), typically over a 2 year period. This base rate is adjusted downward for policies with more valuable (more in the money) guarantees by multiplying the base lapse rate by a factor ranging from 15 percent to 75 percent. Additional lapses due to partial withdrawals and older policyholders with tax qualified contracts (due to required minimum distributions) are also included. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the policyholder will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and the level of interest rates after the GMIB waiting period, since these factors determine the value of the guarantee to the policyholder. In general, we assume that GMIB annuitization rates will be higher for policies with more valuable (more in the money) guarantees. In addition, we also assume that GMIB annuitization rates are higher in the first year immediately following the waiting period (the first year the policies are eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB) in comparison to all subsequent 50 Table of Contents years. The Company does not yet have a robust set of annuitization experience because most of its clients policyholders are not yet eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB. However, for certain clients there are several years of annuitization experience for those clients the annuitization function reflects the actual experience and has a maximum annuitization rate per annum of 8 percent (a higher maximum applies in the first year a policy is eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB it is over 13 percent). For most clients there is no currently observable relevant annuitization behavior data and so we use a weighted average (with a heavier weighting on the observed experience noted previously) of three different annuitization functions with maximum annuitization rates per annum of 8 percent, 12 percent, and 30 percent, respectively (with significantly higher rates in the first year a policy is eligible to annuitize utilizing the GMIB). As noted elsewhere, our GMIB reinsurance treaties include claim limits to protect ACE in the event that actual annuitization behavior is significantly higher than expected. During 2010, the Company made various changes to assumptions (primarily annuitization and lapse) and methods used to calculate the fair value. The changes had a net effect of reducing fair value of the liability by $98 million (where the dollar impact of each change was measured in the quarter in which the change was implemented). During 2010, we recorded realized losses of $64 million primarily due to increasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities resulting substantially from the impact of falling interest rates. This excludes realized losses of $150 million during 2010 on derivative hedge instruments held to partially offset the risk in the VA guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for a breakdown of the realized gains on GLB reinsurance and the realized losses on the derivatives for 2010 and 2009. ACE Tempest Life Re employs a strategy to manage the financial market and policyholder behavior risks embedded in the reinsurance of VA guarantees. Risk management begins with underwriting a prospective client and guarantee design, with particular focus on protecting ACEs position from policyholder options that, because of anti selective behavior, could adversely impact our obligation. A second layer of risk management is the structure of the reinsurance contracts. All VA guarantee reinsurance contracts include some form of annual or aggregate claim limit(s). The exact limits vary by contract, but some examples of typical contract provisions include: annual claim limits, as a percentage of reinsured account or guaranteed value, for GMDBs and GMIBs; annual annuitization rate limits, as a percentage of annuitization eligible account or guaranteed value, for GMIBs; and per policy claim limits, as a percentage of guaranteed value, for GMABs. A third layer of risk management is the hedging strategy which is focused on mitigating long term economic losses at a portfolio level. ACE Tempest Life Re owned financial market instruments as part of the hedging strategy with a fair value of $21 million and $47 million at December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The instruments are substantially collateralized by our counterparties, on a daily basis. We also limit the aggregate amount of variable annuity reinsurance guarantee risk we are willing to assume. The last substantive U.S. transaction was quoted in mid 2007 and the last transaction in Japan was quoted in late 2007. The aggregate number of policyholders is currently decreasing through policyholder withdrawals and deaths at a rate of 5 10 percent annually. Note that GLB claims cannot occur for any reinsured policy until it has reached the end of its waiting period. The vast majority of policies we reinsure reach the end of their waiting periods in 2013 or later, as shown in the table below. Year of first payment eligibility Percent of living benefitaccount values 2010 and prior 1% 2011 0% 2012 7% 2013 24% 2014 19% 2015 5% 2016 6% 2017 18% 2018 and after 20% Total 100% 51 Table of Contents The following table provides the historical cash flows under these policies for the periods indicated. The amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid, split by benefit type. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Death Benefits (GMDB) Premium $ 109 $ 108 Less paid claims 125 152 Net $ (16 ) $ (44 ) Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB) Premium $ 162 $ 162 Less paid claims 4 5 Net $ 158 $ 157 Total VA Guaranteed Benefits Premium $ 271 $ 270 Less paid claims 129 157 Net $ 142 $ 113 Death Benefits (GMDB) For premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring GMDBs, at current market levels, we expect approximately $105 million of claims and $91 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months. Guaranteed Living Benefits (includes GMIB and GMAB) Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring predominantly Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB) are collectively known as Guaranteed Living Benefits (GLB). Substantially all of our living benefit reinsurance clients policyholders are currently ineligible to trigger a claim payment. The vast majority of these policyholders become eligible in years 2013 and beyond. At current market levels, we expect approximately $1 million of claims and $149 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months. Collateral In order for its U.S. domiciled clients to obtain statutory reserve credit, ACE Tempest Life Re holds collateral on behalf of its clients in the form of qualified assets in trust or letters of credit, in an amount sufficient for them to obtain statutory reserve credit. The timing of the calculation and amount of the collateral varies by client according to the particulars of the reinsurance treaty and the statutory reserve guidelines of the clients state of domicile. Refer to Note 4 i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill, which represents the excess of acquisition cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired, was $4 billion at December 31, 2010. During 2010, our goodwill balance increased by approximately six percent, primarily due to acquisitions and foreign exchange movements at the legal entity level. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation for impairment at least annually, or earlier if there are any indications of possible impairment. The impairment evaluation involves a two step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if a potential impairment is present, the amount of impairment is measured and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are: North American and International divisions of Combined Insurance acquired in 2008; Domestic and International divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; and ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. Based on our impairment testing for 2010, we determined that no impairment was required and that none of our reporting units were at risk for failing the initial impairment testing step. To estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we consistently applied a combination of the following models: an earnings multiple, a book value multiple, a discounted cash flow or an allocated market capitalization. The earnings and book value 52 Table of Contents models apply multiples, including the consideration of a control premium, of comparable publicly traded companies to forecasted earnings or book value of each reporting unit and consider current market transactions. The discounted cash flow model applies a discount to estimated cash flows including a terminal value calculation. The market capitalization model applies a control premium to our market capitalization and, so adjusted, compares the allocated market capitalization to the allocated book value of each reporting unit. To determine an appropriate control premium we considered both the mean and range of control premiums paid in our industry for recent transactions involving businesses similar to our reporting units. We then selected a control premium within the range appropriate to our business. We must assess whether the current fair value of our reporting units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our reporting units, including: short term and long term growth rates; estimated cost of equity and changes in long term risk free interest rates; selection of appropriate earnings and book value market multiples to be utilized in various multiple approaches; and risk premium applied in determining discount rate for calculating net present value of estimated future cash flows. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Net premiums written $ 13,708 $ 13,299 $ 13,080 3% 2% Net premiums earned 13,504 13,240 13,203 2% 0% Net investment income 2,070 2,031 2,062 2% (2)% Net realized gains (losses) 432 (196 ) (1,633 ) NM 88% Total revenues 16,006 15,075 13,632 6% 11% Losses and loss expenses 7,579 7,422 7,603 2% (2)% Policy benefits 357 325 399 10% (19)% Policy acquisition costs 2,337 2,130 2,135 10% 0% Administrative expenses 1,858 1,811 1,737 3% 4% Interest expense 224 225 230 0% (2)% Other (income) expense (16 ) 85 (39 ) NM NM Total expenses 12,339 11,998 12,065 3% (1)% Income before income tax 3,667 3,077 1,567 19% 96% Income tax expense 559 528 370 6% 43% Net income $ 3,108 $ 2,549 $ 1,197 22% 113% NM not meaningful 53 Table of Contents The following table summarizes by major product line the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 P&C A&H Total Total Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.0% 0.5% 1.7% 4.8% Foreign exchange effect 0.9% 3.2% 1.4% (3.1)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 2.9% 3.7% 3.1% 1.7% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 0.6% 1.0% 0.7% 3.5% Foreign exchange effect 0.7% 3.1% 1.3% (3.2)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.3% 4.1% 2.0% 0.3% The following table shows a breakdown of our consolidated net premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 % change 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Retail P&C $ 6,533 $ 6,347 $ 6,289 3% 1 % Wholesale 2,212 2,222 2,426 0% (8 )% Reinsurance 1,075 1,038 914 4% 14 % Property, casualty and all other 9,820 9,607 9,629 2% 0 % Personal accident (A&H) 3,346 3,229 3,018 4% 7 % Life 542 463 433 17% 7 % Total consolidated $ 13,708 $ 13,299 $ 13,080 3% 2 % Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased in 2010, compared with 2009. We benefited from favorable foreign exchange impact and reported growth in our international retail business, global reinsurance operations, personal lines, international life, and our wholesale division in the U.S. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recognized a non recurring premium adjustment in our Insurance North American segment. Growth was partially offset by a decline in assumed loss portfolio business and by our crop business, which generated a lower adjustment to net premiums written and earned in connection with crop settlements. In addition, net premiums written and earned were reduced by $35 million in 2010, due to reinstatement premiums expensed which were primarily in connection with the first quarter 2010 catastrophe activity. Net premiums written increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year (the prior year period included the results of Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and increased assumed loss portfolio business. We also reported increased retained premium from P&C reinsurance, increased retail specialty casualty production and benefitted from the annual first quarter crop settlement, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impact, and lower production in wholesale P&C, retail national accounts, property, and personal lines. Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure periods expire. Net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to increases in net premiums earned in our Global Reinsurance segment, international retail business, personal lines, international life, and U.S. casualty. These increases were partially offset by lower crop business and assumed loss portfolios, as well, as declines in our London wholesale unit. Net premiums earned for 2009 were stable compared with 2008, as declines in wholesale P&C, and retail national accounts and property business, as well as an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. These were offset by growth in assumed loss portfolio business, crop business, and retail specialty casualty and included Combined Insurances results for the full period. 54 Table of Contents The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the periods indicated. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) % change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Property and all other $ 3,898 $ 4,023 $ 3,954 (3)% 2 % Casualty 5,752 5,587 5,838 3% (4 )% Subtotal 9,650 9,610 9,792 0% (2 )% Personal accident (A&H) 3,331 3,198 3,004 4% 6 % Life 523 432 407 21% 6 % Net premiums earned $ 13,504 $ 13,240 $ 13,203 2% 0 % 2010 % of total 2009 % of total 2008 % of total Property and all other 29% 30% 30% Casualty 43% 42% 44% Subtotal 72% 72% 74% Personal accident (A&H) 25% 25% 23% Life 3% 3% 3% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Net investment income increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base, partially offset by lower yields on new investments and short term securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. Net investment income was also adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements in 2009. Refer to Net Investment Income and Investments. In evaluating our segments excluding Life, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the Life segment as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that segment. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting loss. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition cost ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio 59.2% 58.8% 60.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 17.4% 16.2% 16.2% Administrative expense ratio 13.6% 13.3% 12.8% Combined ratio 90.2% 88.3% 89.6% 55 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and the impact of prior period development on our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 59.2% 58.8% 60.6% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (3.2)% (1.2)% (4.7)% Prior period development 4.6% 4.9% 6.8% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.3)% (0.8)% 0.0% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 60.3% 61.7% 62.7% We recorded net pre tax catastrophe losses of $366 million in 2010 compared with net pre tax catastrophe losses of $137 million and $567 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2010 were primarily related to weather related events in the U.S., earthquakes in Chile, Mexico, and New Zealand, and storms in Australia and Europe. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to an earthquake in Asia, floods in Europe, several weather related events in the U.S., and a European windstorm. For 2008, the catastrophe losses were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $503 million of net favorable prior period development in our P&C segments in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development in our P&C segments of $576 million and $814 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio declined in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, non recurring premium adjustment and the reduction in assumed loss portfolio business, which is written at higher loss ratios than other types of business. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009. The increase was primarily related to the impact of crop settlements, which generated higher profit share commissions and a lower adjustment to net premiums earned, as well as the impact of reinstatement premiums expensed in connection with catastrophe activity and changes in business mix. Our administrative expense ratio increased in 2010, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, reinstatement premiums expensed, and increased costs in our international operations. Although the crop settlements generate minimal administrative expenses, they resulted in lower adjustment to net premiums earned in 2010, compared with 2009. Administrative expenses in 2010, were partially offset by higher net results generated by our third party claims administration business, ESIS, the results of which are included within our administrative expenses. ESIS generated $85 million in net results in 2010, compared with $26 million in 2009. The increase is primarily from non recurring sources. Our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable in 2009, compared with 2008, as increases in our Combined Insurance operations were offset by more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions. Administrative expenses increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of administrative expenses related to Combined Insurance for the full year and costs associated with new product expansion in our domestic retail operation and in our personal lines business. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate was 15 percent in 2010, compared with 17 percent and 24 percent in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate in 2010, was primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings to lower tax paying jurisdictions, a decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits which was the result of a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service Appeals Division regarding federal tax returns for the years 2002 2004, and the recognition of a non taxable gain related to the acquisition of Rain and Hail. The 2009 year included a reduction of a deferred tax valuation allowance related to investments. For 2008, our effective income tax rate was adversely impacted by a change in mix of earnings due to the impact of catastrophe losses in lower tax paying jurisdictions. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development, inclusive of the Life segment, of $512 million during 2010 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. With respect to ACEs crop business, ACE regularly receives reports from its managing general agent (MGA) relating to the previous crop year(s) in subsequent calendar quarters and this typically results 56 Table of Contents in adjustments to the previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission. Commencing in the third quarter of 2009, prior period development for ACEs crop business includes adjustments to both crop losses and loss expenses and the related crop profit share commission. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment are discussed in more detail. Long tail lines include lines such as workers compensation, general liability, and professional liability; while short tail lines include lines such as most property lines, energy, personal accident, aviation, and marine. The following table summarizes (favorable) and adverse prior period development by segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2010 Insurance North American active $ (102 ) $ (137 ) $ (239 ) 1.5 % Insurance North American runoff** 132 132 0.8 % Insurance Overseas General (159 ) (131 ) (290 ) 4.3 % Global Reinsurance (72 ) (34 ) (106 ) 4.7 % Life (9 ) (9 ) 4.0 % Total $ (201 ) $ (311 ) $ (512 ) 2.0 % 2009 Insurance North American active $ (162 ) $ (105 ) $ (267 ) 1.7 % Insurance North American runoff** 88 88 0.5 % Insurance Overseas General (140 ) (115 ) (255 ) 4.2 % Global Reinsurance (93 ) (49 ) (142 ) 5.6 % Life (3 ) (3 ) 1.4 % Total $ (307 ) $ (272 ) $ (579 ) 2.4 % * Calculated based on the segment/total beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expenses reserves. ** Brandywine Holdings and Westchester Specialty operations in respect of 1996 and prior years, and Commercial Insurance Services (CIS) workers compensation. Insurance North American Insurance North Americans active operations experienced net favorable prior period development of $239 million in 2010, resulting from several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $102 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $49 million within our financial solutions business driven by the favorable impact of a settlement in 2010 on a major contract, primarily in the 2000 and prior accident years; Favorable development of $105 million in our D&O and E&O portfolios following detailed claim and actuarial reviews of case activity in 2010. This development was the net of favorable movements primarily in the 2006 and prior accident years, partially offset by adverse movements in the 2007 2009 years; Favorable development of $54 million on our national accounts portfolio. The favorable development was a function of two primary factors. First, this development related to our annual assessment in 2010 of multi claimant events including industrial accidents. Consistent with prior years, we reviewed these potential exposures for accident year 2009, after the close of the accident year to allow for late reporting or identification of significant losses. Second, there was better than expected loss emergence reported in 2010 on the 2005 and 2006 accident years and greater weighting assigned to experienced based methods; Adverse development of $91 million in our excess casualty businesses principally arising in the 2007 accident year following case specific developments on several open claims; Adverse development of $30 million in our small and middle market guaranteed cost workers compensation portfolios that was driven by an increasing trend in claims frequency and allocated claims expenses on accident years 2008 and subsequent; and Favorable development of $15 million on other lines across a number of accident years, primarily following better than expected loss emergence. 57 Table of Contents Net favorable development of $137 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $41 million in our crop/hail business associated with recording the most recent bordereaux for the 2009 and prior crop years. The $41 million reflects the net of improvement in the loss estimate ($86 million) and a corresponding increase in profit share commission expense ($45 million); and Favorable development of $96 million in property, aviation, inland and recreational marine, political risk, and other short tailed exposures principally in accident years 2007 2009 following lower than expected loss emergence. Insurance North Americans runoff operations experienced net adverse prior period development of $132 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements impacting accident years 2000 and prior, driven by the following principal changes: Adverse development of $114 million in our Westchester and Brandywine runoff operations. This development includes $89 million related to the completion of the reserve review during 2010 and is comprised primarily of adverse development for asbestos claims related to increased loss and defense cost payment activity on a limited number of accounts and adverse development for assumed reinsurance due to increased paid loss and case reserve activity in recent years, partially offset by increased distributions received from insolvent reinsurers and commutations. This also includes additional adverse development of $19 million for unallocated loss adjustment expenses due to runoff operating expenses paid during the current year; and Adverse development of $18 million on runoff CIS workers compensation following emergence of higher than expected medical costs. Insurance North Americans active operations experienced net favorable prior period development of $267 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $162 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $42 million in our foreign casualty product lines where both paid and reported incurred loss and allocated loss adjustment expense activity was favorable relative to the expected activity implied in our prior review, particularly for workers compensation and general liability coverages primarily impacting accident years 2004 2006; Favorable development of $52 million in our national accounts loss sensitive accounts unit impacting the 2005 2007 accident years. This development represents the reduction in premium based loss reserves that resulted from a $96 million reduction in our estimate of retrospectively rated premiums due to updated information for the 2004 2007 policy years; Favorable development of $33 million in our ACE Financial Solutions business unit concentrated in policies issued in the 2004 2006 years. This favorable development was a function of a continuation of lower than expected loss development, first observed in 2008, on a small number of large risks with predominantly workers compensation exposure; and Favorable development of $35 million on all other long tail lines, including our programs division and medical risk business, concentrated within the 2006 and prior accident years. Net favorable development of $105 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $49 million mainly in our political risk business, short tail lines in our programs division, and recreational marine business, primarily relating to the 2004 2008 accident years as a result of a lack of claims emergence; and Favorable development of $56 million in other lines including property, crop, A&H, and other lines principally in accident years 2005 2007 following lower than expected loss emergence. Insurance North Americans runoff operations experienced net adverse prior period development of $88 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements impacting accident years 1999 and prior, driven by the following principal change: Adverse development in our Brandywine runoff operations comprising several components. First, adverse development of $47 million in assumed reinsurance pools which was the combined impact from receipt of updated information on pool reserves and adverse impact of activity on a litigated claim. Second, adverse development of $28 million on workers compensation business due to higher than expected case incurred loss development since the last review. Insurance North American incurred net favorable prior period development of $351 million in 2008, representing 2.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. 58 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $290 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $159 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $241 million in casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines for accident years 2006 and prior that recognized both favorable loss emergence and a greater weight to experience based methods as years mature; and Adverse development of $82 million in the casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines book for accident years 2007 2009 principally arising from a claims review of financial crisis related claims (adverse $57 million impact) and emergence of adverse frequency and severity trends within certain portfolios (adverse $24 million impact). Net favorable development of $131 million on short tail business, including property, marine, A&H, and energy lines across multiple geographical regions, and within both retail and wholesale operations, lower than expected loss emergence, principally on accident years 2007 2009. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $255 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $140 million on long tail business, including: Favorable development of $201 million on casualty (primary and excess) and financial lines, predominantly arising on the 2005 and prior accident years. This amount was based primarily on detailed reviews completed in 2009 which noted improvements in experience relative to the expectations of the prior detailed analyses, including case specific savings on several significant 2001 2003 bankers professional indemnity claims. Due to the greater level of maturity of these years, increasing weight has been given to the emerged loss experience; and Adverse development of $70 million relating to the 2008 accident year for financial lines in connection with exposure to financial frauds and sub prime claims. This amount was based primarily on a claims review conducted during 2009 of notifications and potential exposure. During this review, we obtained assessments from external legal counsel of the governing law on each potential claim and assessed all other claimant information to arrive at the provision for each case. Net favorable development of $115 million on short tail business, including: Favorable development of $94 million in the property and energy, A&H, and marine lines of business across multiple geographic regions, principally due to specific case reserve reductions on previously reported claims and lower than anticipated development on other claims led to a release of prior year reserves mainly in accident years 2003 2008; and Favorable development of $21 million on other lines including aviation where case development has been favorable on the 2005 and prior accident years as a result of case specific reductions for product liability claims. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $304 million in 2008, representing 4.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $106 million in 2010, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $72 million on long tail business, including net favorable prior period development of $96 million principally in treaty years 2003 2006 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice). The lower loss estimates arose from a combination of favorable incurred loss trends and increased weighting to experience based methods. Net favorable development of $34 million on short tail business, primarily in treaty years 2003 2008 across property lines, including property catastrophe, trade credit and surety principally as a result of lower than anticipated loss emergence. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $142 million in 2009, which was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $93 million on long tail business principally in treaty years 2003 2005 across a number of portfolios (professional liability, D&O, casualty, and medical malpractice). The lower loss estimates arose from the combined impact of continued favorable paid and case incurred loss trends and increased weighting given to experience based methods and away from expectations as these treaty periods mature. Net favorable development of $49 million on short tail business following lower than expected loss emergence in property and trade credit related lines. 59 Table of Contents Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $159 million in 2008, representing 5.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2007. Life Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $9 million in 2010. The favorable development followed a detailed review during 2010 and was mainly for accident year 2009 in the short tail A&H line of business. Life experienced net favorable prior period development of $3 million in 2009 on short tail A&H business. The reserve release followed a detailed review during 2009 and reflected lower reported claim development than previously anticipated. Life experienced no net prior period development in 2008. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 The discussions that follow include tables that show our segment operating results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information under Item 1. Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, ACE Private Risk Services, and various run off operations. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 5,797 $ 5,641 $ 5,636 3% 0% Net premiums earned 5,651 5,684 5,679 (1)% 0% Losses and loss expenses 3,918 4,013 4,080 (2)% (2)% Policy acquisition costs 625 517 562 21% (8)% Administrative expenses 561 572 536 (2)% 7% Underwriting income 547 582 501 (6)% 16% Net investment income 1,138 1,094 1,095 4% 0% Net realized gains (losses) 417 10 (709 ) NM NM Interest expense 9 1 1 NM 0% Other (income) expense (22 ) 36 7 NM 414% Income tax expense 436 384 315 14% 22% Net income $ 1,679 $ 1,265 $ 564 33% 124% Loss and loss expense ratio 69.3% 70.6% 71.8% Policy acquisition cost ratio 11.1% 9.1% 9.9% Administrative expense ratio 9.9% 10.1% 9.4% Combined ratio 90.3% 89.8% 91.1% Insurance North American reported an increase in net premiums written in 2010, compared with 2009. For 2010, the retail division reported growth in A&H and workers compensation, as well as increased premium retention in professional risk lines and favorable foreign exchange impact on Canadian business. The retail division also benefited from one time premium related adjustments totaling $80 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. These increases were partially offset by less new business and renewed policies across several lines of business, reflecting a decline in value of exposures, competitive market conditions, and our adherence to underwriting discipline. These factors were especially evident in our national accounts, as well as aerospace and energy lines of business. Growth in the retail division was also offset by a decline in assumed loss portfolio business. The years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, included net premiums written and earned of approximately $86 million and $221 million, respectively, related to assumed loss portfolio business. Net premiums written in our wholesale 60 Table of Contents division increased in 2010, compared with the prior year, primarily due to higher premium retention, along with increases in commercial risk and professional lines as well as the addition of new program business. These increases were partially offset by lower crop production primarily reflecting the impact of crop settlements. Throughout the year, we receive the results from the previous crop year which typically require us to make adjustments to previously estimated premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commission (refer to Crop Insurance). Our personal lines business reported growth in homeowners and auto insurance, as well as specialty offerings in 2010. Insurance North American reported stable net premiums written in 2009, compared with 2008. We experienced growth in our retail specialty casualty, professional risk, A&H, and assumed loss portfolio businesses and in the crop business within our wholesale division. These increases were offset by declines in retail property and national accounts production, unfavorable foreign exchange impact from our Canadian operations, declines in wholesale professional and casualty lines, as well as lower personal lines production. The following two tables provide a line of business breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Property and all other $ 1,578 $ 1,690 $ 1,576 (7)% 7% Casualty 3,777 3,734 3,857 1% (3)% Personal accident (A&H) 296 260 246 14% 6% Net premiums earned $ 5,651 $ 5,684 $ 5,679 (1)% 0% 2010 2009 2008 % of Total % of Total % of Total Property and all other 28% 30% 28% Casualty 67% 66% 68% Personal accident (A&H) 5% 4% 4% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Insurance North American reported a decline in net premiums earned in 2010, compared with 2009. This decline was attributable to less assumed loss portfolio transfers, in addition to a decrease in risk management business in the retail division, lower professional and casualty business and less favorable crop settlements in the wholesale division. These decreases were partially offset by increases in workers compensation, professional risk, A&H, and personal lines, favorable foreign exchange impact, the one time premium related adjustments totaling $80 million and new program business in the wholesale division. Insurance North American reported stable net premiums earned for 2009, compared with 2008. We reported increases in the specialty casualty and professional lines and higher assumed loss portfolio business in the retail division as well as an increase in the annual crop settlement in the wholesale division. These increases were offset by declines in national accounts and property business, an unfavorable foreign exchange impact in the retail division and declines in property, casualty and professional risk business in the wholesale division. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior period development, and large assumed loss portfolio transfers on our loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 69.3% 70.6% 71.8% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (2.6)% (1.0)% (5.4)% Prior period development 2.7% 3.1% 6.2% Large assumed loss portfolio transfers (0.5)% (1.2)% 0.0% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 68.9% 71.5% 72.6% 61 Table of Contents Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses were $143 million in 2010, compared with $58 million and $298 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses for 2010, were related to severe weather related events in the U.S. and earthquakes in Haiti and Chile. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were related to an earthquake in Asia and several weather related events in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Insurance North American experienced net favorable prior period development of $107 million in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $179 million and $351 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio declined in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the impact of the crop settlements, non recurring premium adjustment and the reduction in assumed loss portfolio business, which is written at higher loss ratios than other types of business. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009. In 2010, our retail units experienced a shift in mix of business towards higher commission specialty casualty business, professional and personal lines, and a decline in assumed loss portfolio business which generates minimal expense. In the wholesale division, the impact of crop settlements which generated higher profit share commissions and a lower adjustment to net premiums earned compared with 2009, contributed to this increase. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, due to a higher ceding commission benefit and the increased assumed loss portfolio business in the retail division. In addition, we experienced more favorable final crop year settlement of profit share commissions in the wholesale division in 2009. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio decreased in 2010 primarily due to higher net results generated by our third party claims administration business in the retail division, ESIS, the results of which are included within our administrative expenses. ESIS generated $85 million in net results in 2010, compared with $26 million in 2009. This increase is primarily from non recurring sources. In addition, the decline in assumed loss portfolio business resulted in an adverse impact on our administrative expense ratio in 2010. Insurance North Americans administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to higher administrative expenses in our retail division to support growth in certain businesses, from both new and existing products, as well as higher spending to support growth in the personal lines business. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment comprises ACE International, our retail business serving territories outside the U.S., Bermuda, and Canada; the international A&H and life business of Combined Insurance; and the wholesale insurance business of ACE Global Markets, our London based excess and surplus lines business that includes Lloyds Syndicate 2488. The reinsurance operation of ACE Global Markets is included in the Global Reinsurance segment. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 5,280 $ 5,145 $ 5,332 3% (4)% Net premiums earned 5,240 5,147 5,337 2% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 2,647 2,597 2,679 2% (3)% Policy benefits 4 4 12 0% (67)% Policy acquisition costs 1,251 1,202 1,193 4% 1% Administrative expenses 840 783 793 7% (1)% Underwriting income 498 561 660 (11)% (15)% Net investment income 475 479 521 (1)% (8)% Net realized gains (losses) 123 (20 ) (316 ) NM 94% Interest expense 1 NM 0% Other (income) expense (13 ) 20 (11 ) NM NM Income tax expense 173 186 100 (7)% 86% Net income $ 935 $ 814 $ 776 15% 5% Loss and loss expense ratio 50.6% 50.5% 50.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 23.9% 23.3% 22.4% Administrative expense ratio 16.0% 15.2% 14.8% Combined ratio 90.5% 89.0% 87.6% 62 Table of Contents 2010 2009 P&C A&H Total Total Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% 2.9% Foreign exchange effect 1.6% 3.7% 2.4% (6.4)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.8% 4.0% 2.6% (3.5)% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency (0.8)% 0.3% (0.4)% 3.2% Foreign exchange effect 1.4% 3.6% 2.2% (6.8)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 0.6% 3.9% 1.8% (3.6)% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased in 2010, primarily due to growth in our international retail operations and favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by reduced production in our London wholesale business. Refer to the table above for the impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned. In 2010, our international retail P&C business reported growth driven primarily by new business in Asia Pacific, Latin America, the U.K. and Europe. A&H improved in 2010 on the strength of new business in Asia Pacific and Latin America. The personal lines business increased during 2010, primarily due to an increase in production retention as well new business in the U.K., Europe, and Latin America. Our London wholesale business unit reported lower production within most product lines, as we continue to decline business submitted at prices we deem to be inadequate from an underwriting perspective. For 2010, Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written and earned were reduced by approximately $33 million due to reinstatement premiums expensed primarily in connection with first quarter catastrophe activity. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact and lower constant dollar production within our London wholesale business. On a constant dollar basis, our international retail operations experienced P&C growth in all regions, with the exception of the Far East, and reported increased A&H business in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the growth in the international retail operations and favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by lower wholesale writings and reinstatement premiums expensed in connection with first quarter catastrophe activity. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. On a constant dollar basis, net premiums earned increased due to growth in P&C production in our international retail operations. Our London wholesale operations reported a decline in net premiums earned due to lower production. 63 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and regional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,800 $ 1,787 $ 1,855 1% (4)% Casualty 1,424 1,420 1,487 0% (5)% Personal accident (A&H) 2,016 1,940 1,995 4% (3)% Net premiums earned $ 5,240 $ 5,147 $ 5,337 2% (4)% Region Europe $ 2,284 $ 2,348 $ 2,420 (3)% (3)% Asia Pacific 847 754 791 12% (5)% Far East 465 451 425 3% 6% Latin America 905 772 778 17% (1)% 4,501 4,325 4,414 4% (2)% ACE Global Markets 739 822 923 (10)% (11)% Net premiums earned $ 5,240 $ 5,147 $ 5,337 2% (4)% 2010 % of Total 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total Line of Business Property and all other 34% 34% 35% Casualty 27% 28% 28% Personal accident (A&H) 39% 38% 37% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% Region Europe 44% 45% 45% Asia Pacific 16% 15% 15% Far East 9% 9% 8% Latin America 17% 15% 15% 86% 84% 83% ACE Global Markets 14% 16% 17% Net premiums earned 100% 100% 100% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 50.6% 50.5% 50.4% Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (2.8)% (1.0)% (1.6)% Prior period development 5.5% 5.0% 5.7% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 53.3% 54.5% 54.5% Net catastrophe losses in 2010 were $132 million, compared with $51 million and $83 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The catastrophe losses in 2010 included earthquakes in Chile and Mexico, and storms in Australia and Europe. The catastrophe losses for 2009 were primarily related to floods and windstorms in Europe. Catastrophe losses in 2008 were primarily related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, tornadoes in the U.S., and an earthquake in China. Insurance Overseas 64 Table of Contents General experienced net favorable prior period development of $290 million, $255 million, and $304 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The adjusted loss and loss expense ratio for 2010 decreased primarily due to improved current accident year loss experience compared with the prior year periods in our retail business, partially offset by an increase in current year accident losses in our wholesale business. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to changes in mix of business, and the impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums expensed. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2010, primarily due to the impact of reinstatement premiums expensed, and reduced wholesale earned premiums. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower net premiums earned in the retail A&H business, without a commensurate reduction in advertising costs, which are generally deferred and amortized over a longer period than the related premium. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance for the full year. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re International, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverage to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 1,075 $ 1,038 $ 914 4% 14% Net premiums earned 1,071 979 1,017 9% (4)% Losses and loss expenses 518 330 524 57% (37)% Policy acquisition costs 204 195 192 5% 2% Administrative expenses 55 55 56 0% (2)% Underwriting income 294 399 245 (26)% 63% Net investment income 288 278 309 4% (10)% Net realized gains (losses) 93 (17 ) (163 ) NM 90% Other (income) expense (23 ) 2 2 NM 0% Income tax expense 42 46 30 (9)% 53% Net income $ 656 $ 612 $ 359 7% 70% Loss and loss expense ratio 48.4% 33.7% 51.5% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.0% 19.9% 18.8% Administrative expense ratio 5.1% 5.6% 5.5% Combined ratio 72.5% 59.2% 75.8% Global Reinsurance reported an increase in net premiums written in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to a significant new workers compensation treaty recorded during 2010 in our U.S. operation, partially offset by generally competitive conditions across most of Global Reinsurances product lines and regions of operations. Net premiums written increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to P&C production growth in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. 65 Table of Contents The following tables provide a line of business breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the periods indicated. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Property and all other $ 239 $ 262 $ 229 (9 )% 14 % Casualty 551 433 494 27 % (12 )% Property catastrophe 281 284 294 (1 )% (3 )% Net premiums earned $ 1,071 $ 979 $ 1,017 9 % (4 )% 2010 % of Total 2009 % of Total 2008 % of Total Property and all other 22 % 27 % 22 % Casualty 51 % 44 % 49 % Property catastrophe 27 % 29 % 29 % Net premiums earned 100 % 100 % 100 % Global Reinsurances net premiums earned increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the significant new workers compensation business bound and higher casualty reinsurance production in the prior year in our U.S. operations. Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily because 2008 included non recurring inward reinstatement premiums related to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, we experienced lower production in 2008, which had an adverse impact on net premiums earned in 2009. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums and prior period development on this segments loss and loss expense ratio for the periods indicated. 2010 2009 2008 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 48.4 % 33.7 % 51.5 % Catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums (8.4) % (2.8) % (17.6) % Prior period development 10.0 % 14.5 % 16.0 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 50.0 % 45.4 % 49.9 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $91 million in 2010, compared with net catastrophe losses of $28 million and $186 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Catastrophe losses in 2010, included storms in Australia and earthquakes in Chile and New Zealand. Catastrophe losses for 2009, were primarily related to various Canadian storms and Hurricane Klaus. For 2008, catastrophe losses were primarily due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $106 million in 2010. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $142 million and $159 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The increase in the adjusted loss and loss expense ratio was due to a change in business mix. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio decreased in 2010, compared with 2009, as a result of lower commission in our U.S. operations, primarily due to the new workers compensation treaty business which did not generate acquisition costs. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to the impact of inward reinstatement premiums in 2008, which generated minimal acquisition costs. The administrative expense ratio decreased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned. In 2009, the administrative expense ratio increased compared with 2008, primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned. 66 Table of Contents Life The Life segment includes ACEs international life operations (ACE Life), ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re), and the North American supplemental A&H and life business of Combined Insurance. We assess the performance of our life business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. % Change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs. 2008 Net premiums written $ 1,556 $ 1,475 $ 1,198 5% 23% Net premiums earned 1,542 1,430 1,170 8% 22% Losses and loss expenses 496 482 320 3% 51% Policy benefits 353 321 387 10% (17)% Policy acquisition costs 257 216 188 19% 15% Administrative expenses 228 243 199 (6)% 22% Net investment income 172 176 142 (2)% 24% Life underwriting income 380 344 218 10% 58% Net realized gains (losses) (192) (15) (532) NM 97% Interest expense 3 NM 0% Other (income) expense 20 2 12 NM (83)% Income tax expense 62 48 30 29% 60% Net income $ 103 $ 279 $ (356) (63)% NM The following table provides a line of business breakdown of life underwriting income for the periods indicated. % change (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs.2009 2009 vs.2008 Life reinsurance and other non recurring expenses $ 172 $ 154 $ 105 12 % 47 % Life insurance (30 ) (20 ) (28 ) (50 )% 29 % A&H 238 210 141 13 % 49 % Life underwriting income $ 380 $ 344 $ 218 10 % 58 % Life underwriting income increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to increased A&H premium retention as well as lower administrative costs due to operating efficiencies in North American supplemental A&H. In addition, for 2010, life reinsurance benefited from favorable market movements in the first quarter relative to the prior year period. ACE Life generated a modest underwriting loss due to on going development costs in its businesses. For 2009, the improvement in life underwriting income, compared with 2008, was primarily due to the inclusion of Combined Insurance business for the full year (the prior year included Combined Insurance from April 1, 2008) and an increase in life reinsurance underwriting income, primarily due to a larger increase in reserves in 2008 compared with 2009, due to unfavorable market movements. Net realized gains (losses), which are excluded from life underwriting income, relate primarily to the change in the net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities and changes in the fair value of derivatives used to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee portfolio. During 2010, realized losses were primarily associated with an increasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities resulting substantially from the impact of falling interest rates. The 2010 realized loss was also impacted by a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and increasing GLB liabilities due to the annual collection of premium, offset by decreasing GLB liabilities due to rising equity markets and model enhancements. During 2009, realized gains associated with a decreasing net fair value of reported GLB reinsurance liabilities were almost entirely offset by a combination of a reduction in the value of hedge instruments and modeling changes. The residual realized loss for 2009 also included the impact of foreign exchange and changes in asset values. We experienced significant net realized losses in 2008, which were primarily due to adverse financial market conditions. 67 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities $ 2,071 $ 1,985 $ 1,972 Short term investments 34 38 109 Equity securities 26 54 93 Other 44 48 (20) Gross investment income 2,175 2,125 2,154 Investment expenses (105) (94) (92) Net investment income $ 2,070 $ 2,031 $ 2,062 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased two percent in the year ended December 31, 2010, compared with 2009. Positive operating cash flows, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base, were partially offset by lower yields on new investments and short term securities. Net investment income decreased in 2009, compared with 2008, primarily due to lower yields on new investments and unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements, partially offset by an increase in average invested assets. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 3.6 percent and 4.3 percent at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Average market yield on fixed maturities represents the weighted average yield to maturity of our fixed income portfolio based on the market prices of the holdings at that date. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 2008 Average invested assets $ 48,044 $ 43,767 $ 41,502 Net investment income $ 2,070 $ 2,031 $ 2,062 Return on average invested assets 4.3% 4.6% 5.0% Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an Other than temporary impairment (OTTI) charge in net income. For a discussion related to how we assess OTTI for all of our investments, including credit related OTTI, and the related impact on net income, refer to Note 4 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GLB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 68 Table of Contents The following tables present our pre tax net realized and unrealized gains (losses), as well a breakdown of our OTTI and other net realized gains (losses) on investments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetUnrealizedGains(Losses) Net Impact Fixed maturities and short term investments $ 380 $ 973 $ 1,353 $ (41 ) $ 2,717 $ 2,676 Equity securities 84 (44 ) 40 (145 ) 213 68 Other 161 (35 ) 126 31 162 193 Subtotal 625 894 1,519 (155 ) 3,092 2,937 Derivatives Equity and fixed income derivatives 58 58 68 68 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (28 ) (28 ) 368 368 S&P put option and futures (150 ) (150 ) (363 ) (363 ) Fair value adjustment on other derivatives (19 ) (19 ) (93 ) (93 ) Subtotal derivatives (139 ) (139 ) (20 ) (20 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) (54 ) (54 ) (21 ) (21 ) Total gains (losses) $ 432 $ 894 $ 1,326 $ (196 ) $ 3,092 $ 2,896 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) OTTI Other NetRealizedGains(Losses) NetRealizedGains(Losses) Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (46 ) $ 426 $ 380 $ (234 ) $ 193 $ (41 ) Equity securities 84 84 (26 ) (119 ) (145 ) Other (13 ) 174 161 (137 ) 168 31 Total investment portfolio gains (losses) $ (59 ) $ 684 $ 625 $ (397 ) $ 242 $ (155 ) Our net realized gains (losses) in the year ended December 31, 2010, included write downs of $59 million as a result of an other than temporary decline in fair value of certain securities. This compares with write downs of $397 million and $1.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in other net realized gains (losses) is a realized gain of $175 million related to the acquisition of Rain and Hail. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2010, our investment portfolios held by U.S. legal entities included approximately $151 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income investments. Our tax planning strategy related to these losses is based on our view that we will hold these fixed income investments until they recover their cost. As such, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of approximately $53 million related to these fixed income investments. This strategy allows us to recognize the associated deferred tax asset related to these fixed income investments as we do not believe these losses will ever be realized. We engage in a securities lending program which involves lending investments to other institutions for short periods of time. ACE invests the collateral received in securities of high credit quality and liquidity, with the objective of maintaining a stable principal balance. Certain investments purchased with the securities lending collateral declined in value resulting in an unrealized loss of $23 million at December 31, 2010. The unrealized loss is attributable to fluctuations in market values of the underlying performing debt instruments held by the respective mutual funds, rather than default of a debt issuer. We concluded that the decline in value is temporary. 69 Table of Contents Other Income and Expense Items (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 2008 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned entities $ (81 ) $ 39 $ (52 ) Noncontrolling interest expense 14 3 11 Federal excise and capital taxes 19 16 16 Other 32 27 (14 ) Other (income) expense $ (16 ) $ 85 $ (39 ) Other (income) expense primarily comprises our equity in net income of investment funds, limited partnerships, partially owned investment companies, Huatai Insurance Company of China, Limited, and Huatai Life Insurance Company of China, Limited, which are included in equity in net income of partially owned entities. Other (income) expense also includes certain federal excise and capital taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in publicly traded, investment grade fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA (with approximately one half invested in AAA securities), as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers and is broadly diversified across geographies, sectors, and issuers. Our Other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio and we provide no credit default protection. We have long standing global credit limits for our entire portfolio across the organization. Exposures are aggregated, monitored, and actively managed by our Global Credit Committee, comprised of senior executives, including our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Investment Officer, and our Treasurer. We also have well established, strict contractual investment rules requiring managers to maintain highly diversified exposures to individual issuers and closely monitor investment manager compliance with portfolio guidelines. As part of the Companys fixed income diversification strategy, ACE has decided to hold certain additional securities to maturity. Because the Company has the intent to hold these securities to maturity, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $6.8 billion was made during 2010, from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. In 2009, a transfer of such securities with a fair value of $704 million was made from Fixed maturities available for sale to Fixed maturities held to maturity. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.7 years at December 31, 2010, and 2009. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010. We experienced net unrealized gains of $894 million in 2010, primarily due to continued tightening of credit spreads. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/AmortizedCost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 37,539 $ 36,542 $ 39,525 $ 38,985 Fixed maturities held to maturity 9,461 9,501 3,561 3,481 Short term investments 1,983 1,983 1,667 1,667 48,983 48,026 44,753 44,133 Equity securities 692 666 467 398 Other investments 1,692 1,511 1,375 1,258 Total investments $ 51,367 $ 50,203 $ 46,595 $ 45,789 70 Table of Contents The fair value of our total investments increased $4.8 billion during 2010, primarily due to unrealized appreciation, the investing of operating cash flows, and the portfolios acquired in the 2010 corporate acquisitions. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2010 2009 (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Market Value Percentage of Total Market Value Percentage of Total Treasury $ 2,075 4% $ 2,068 5% Agency 2,015 4% 2,698 6% Corporate and asset backed securities 15,900 33% 13,537 30% Mortgage backed securities 12,362 25% 11,311 25% Municipal 2,449 5% 2,300 5% Non U.S. 12,199 25% 11,172 25% Short term investments 1,983 4% 1,667 4% Total $ 48,983 100% $ 44,753 100% AAA $ 23,718 48% $ 22,884 51% AA 4,714 10% 4,021 9% A 8,482 17% 7,461 17% BBB 5,487 11% 4,910 11% BB 3,357 7% 2,866 6% B 2,393 5% 2,029 5% Other 832 2% 582 1% Total $ 48,983 100% $ 44,753 100% 71 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the market value of our non U.S. fixed income portfolio by country/sovereign for non U.S. government securities at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value United Kingdom $ 972 Canada 886 Germany 404 Japan 379 France 193 Province of Ontario 192 Province of Quebec 147 Switzerland 142 Brazil 139 State of Queensland 109 Republic of Korea 102 Thailand 88 United Mexican States 86 Australia 72 Taiwan 65 State of New South Wales 62 New Zealand 58 State of Victoria 52 Peoples Republic of China 48 Austria 46 Malaysia 41 Egypt 37 State of Western Australia 36 Qatar 35 Province of British Columbia 33 Other Non U.S. Government 397 Non U.S. Government Securities 4,821 Non U.S. Corporate 7,378 Total $ 12,199 ACEs non U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency matched with the insurance liabilities of our non U.S. operations. We have 85 percent of our non U.S. fixed income portfolio denominated in G7 currencies. The average credit quality of our non U.S. fixed income securities is AA and 53 percent of our holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi government agencies. Our corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA two percent, A one percent, BBB 0.5 percent of the total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system. With respect to the $7.4 billion in non U.S. corporate fixed income securities in the table above, approximately $329 million relates to investments in Spain and Italy. Investments in Ireland and Portugal total $58 million. We have inconsequential corporate fixed income exposure to Greece. 72 Table of Contents The table below summarizes our largest exposures to corporate bonds by market value at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value General Electric Co $ 468 JP Morgan Chase & Co 451 Bank of America Corp 409 Citigroup Inc 330 Goldman Sachs Group Inc/The 305 Wells Fargo & Co 297 Verizon Communications Inc 296 Morgan Stanley 285 AT&T INC 240 HSBC Holdings Plc 234 Credit Suisse Group 195 Barclays PLC 181 Kraft Foods Inc 162 Comcast Corp 153 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 151 Lloyds Banking Group Plc 147 American Express Co 135 Time Warner Cable Inc 128 ConocoPhillips 125 UBS AG 116 Pfizer Inc 111 Anheuser Busch InBev NV 105 Dominion Resources Inc/VA 104 BP PLC 99 Banco Santander SA 95 Total $ 5,322 Mortgage backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed component of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2010, are provided below: Mortgage backed securities Market Value (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) Agency RMBS $ 9,700 $ $ $ $ $ 9,700 Non agency RMBS 337 20 21 48 812 1,238 Total RMBS 10,037 20 21 48 812 10,938 Commercial mortgage backed 1,386 21 14 3 1,424 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,423 $ 41 $ 35 $ 51 $ 812 $ 12,362 73 Table of Contents Mortgage backed securities Amortized Cost (in millions of U.S. dollars) S&P Credit Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) Agency RMBS $ 9,564 $ $ $ $ $ 9,564 Non agency RMBS 351 23 23 55 947 1,399 Total RMBS 9,915 23 23 55 947 10,963 Commercial mortgage backed 1,320 20 13 3 1,356 Total mortgage backed securities $ 11,235 $ 43 $ 36 $ 58 $ 947 $ 12,319 Our mortgage backed securities are rated predominantly AAA and comprise approximately 25 percent of our fixed income portfolio. This compares with a 35 percent mortgage backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010. The minimum rating for our initial purchases of mortgage backed securities is AAA. Agency RMBS represent securities which have been issued by Federal agencies (Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) with implied or explicit government guarantees. These represent 89 percent of our total RMBS portfolio. With respect to our non agency RMBS, these are backed primarily by prime collateral and are broadly diversified in over 220,000 loans. This portfolios loan to value ratio is approximately 70 percent with an average Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score of 730. With this conservative loan to value ratio and subordinated collateral of 12 percent, the cumulative 5 year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 18 percent and real estate values would have to fall 19 percent from their levels at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, before principal is impaired. The foreclosure rate for ACEs non agency RMBS portfolio was nine percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010. Our commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 17,000 loans, and 79 percent of the portfolio was issued before 2006. The average loan to value ratio is approximately 68 percent with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 33 percent. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 41 percent and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than five percent from their levels at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, before principal is impaired. The foreclosure rate for ACEs CMBS portfolio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, was approximately 2.6 percent. Below investment grade corporate fixed income portfolio Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. At December 31, 2010, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately 14 percent of our fixed income portfolio. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 650 issuers, with the greatest single exposure being $72 million. We manage high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. The allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B. Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction. Our high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience. Holdings are highly diversified across industries and subject to a 1.5 percent issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. We monitor position limits daily through an internal compliance system. Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps and collateralized mortgage obligations) are not permitted in the high yield portfolio. 74 Table of Contents Reinsurance recoverable on ceded reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance $ 12,149 $ 12,745 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 722 850 Net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses $ 12,871 $ 13,595 Reinsurance recoverable on policy benefits $ 281 $ 298 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. The decrease in net reinsurance recoverable on losses and loss expenses was primarily due to collections of reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses in the active operations during the year ended December 31, 2010. Asbestos and environmental (A&E) and other run off liabilities Included in ACEs liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E (A&E liabilities). The A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of ACEs A&E liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. ACE has not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of its A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Reserving considerations For asbestos, ACE faces claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party at multiple sites. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, for direct policies only. 2010 2009 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,023 1,198 Newly reported 66 54 Closed or otherwise disposed 64 229 Open at end of year 1,025 1,023 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 3,371 4,704 Newly reported 133 196 Closed or otherwise disposed 172 1,529 Open at end of year 3,332 3,371 75 Table of Contents Closed or otherwise disposed claims were significantly lower in 2010, compared with 2009, due to a review in the prior year of inactive files that revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files; therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 2010 Survival Ratios 2009 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 6.4 7.6 6.6 7.2 7.1 8.1 6.0 5.3 Environmental 2.4 3.5 2.8 3.9 2.9 4.4 3.1 4.0 Total 5.6 6.2 5.9 6.3 6.2 6.9 5.5 5.0 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2010 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough depiction of reserves and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims, and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year net survival ratio increased in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due to lower net payments for asbestos during 2010. Catastrophe management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe risk accumulation around the world. The following modeled loss information reflects ACEs in force portfolio at October 1, 2010, and reinsurance program at January 1, 2011. The table below shows our modeled annual aggregate pre tax probable maximum loss (PML), net of reinsurance, for 100 year and 250 year return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The table also shows corresponding pre tax industry losses for each of the return periods for U.S. hurricanes and California earthquakes at December 31, 2010. For example, according to the model, for the 1 in 100 return period scenario, there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $1.182 billion (or five percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2010). We estimate that at such hypothetical loss levels, aggregate industry losses would be approximately $136.196 billion. U.S. Hurricanes California Earthquakes 2010 2009 2010 2009 Modeled Annual Aggregate Net PML % of Total Shareholders Equity % of Total Shareholders Equity (in millions of U.S. dollars, except forpercentages) ACE Industry ACE ACE Industry ACE 1 in 100 $ 1,182 5 % $ 136,196 $ 1,128 $ 798 3 % $ 37,018 $ 731 1 in 250 $ 1,570 7 % $ 196,597 $ 1,439 $ 912 4 % $ 58,154 $ 895 The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate potential hurricane and earthquake losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology, seismology, and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane and earthquake losses. In particular, modeled hurricane and earthquake events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. 76 Table of Contents Natural catastrophe property reinsurance program ACEs core property catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary property operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. The first tower, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2011, for a period of one year, and we have purchased reinsurance coverage in one layer that provides $600 million in excess of $500 million in all risk coverage. This core layer of the program has a single additional limit available for reinstatement post loss event on the same terms as the original limit. Our 2011 core North American catastrophe program has approximately the same limits in coverage as our 2010 program. We consider our retention to be approximately $500 million for our North American catastrophe reinsurance program but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other catastrophe programs purchased by individual business units. These other catastrophe programs have the potential to reduce our effective retention below $500 million. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by its strong credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds (the Calabash program). Under this coverage, we have $86 million part of $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of an attachment point of approximately $750 million. In addition, the Calabash program also provides the majority of $100 million of U.S. earthquake coverage excess of approximately $1.173 billion with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. The Calabash program does not have a reinstatement feature over its multi year period of coverage. The programs expected loss is kept the same each year by the annual adjustment, either up or down, of the attachment point based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. Due to exposure change, the attachment for the Calabash program increased from $575 million in 2010 to $750 million in 2011, for the $86 million of wind protection and from approximately $961 million in 2010 to approximately $1.173 billion in 2011, for earthquake protection. The Calabash program expires in June 2012 and the next reset will occur in January 2012. The second tower is our international catastrophe program effective July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2011, covering losses arising outside the United States. At the last renewal we expanded the geographic scope of the coverage to include the states of Alaska and Hawaii in the first two core layers of this program. In addition, we raised the retention of our first reinsurance layer from $50 million to $75 million. Our first layer is now $75 million in excess of a $75 million retention with two reinstatements. This layer was 70 percent placed with reinsurers. Our second layer was 100 percent placed and provides $150 million in protection in excess of $150 million with one reinstatement. We also purchased a $150 million in excess of $300 million layer that covers Europe and worldwide earthquake exposure. Above these pillars of cover is an additional treaty that provides $50 million of protection with one reinstatement (Umbrella 1). However, Umbrella 1 may also be exhausted by certain property per risk losses so it is not certain that it will be available to us for a catastrophe event. In addition, we purchased another $50 million layer above Umbrella 1. With respect to the July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2011, treaty period, we also purchased certain underlying regional catastrophe covers for our ACE Overseas General and ACE Bermuda business units. These catastrophe covers include a Latin America and Caribbean cover ($65 million in excess of $10 million) an Australia, Africa, and Asia (excludes Japan) cover ($40 million in excess of $10 million) and a cover for local Japanese business (denominated in yen and approximately $40 million in excess of $15 million). Finally, we bought a layer of $25 million in excess of $50 million for our Australia, Africa, and Asia as well as Japanese exposures, with the underlying programs inuring to the benefit of this component. With respect to these four regional covers, we placed 55 percent of the layer with reinsurers, and each has two reinstatements. In summary, for our international catastrophe exposures, we purchased $550 million in limits for earthquake protection outside the contiguous United States, $550 million in limits for all perils Europe, and $400 million in limits for other perils in the rest of the world (excluding the contiguous United States). In comparison to last years program, we have increased the limits purchased for Europe by $69 million and for Japan wind by $72 million and Japan earthquake by $222 million. In addition, we increased our retention in Europe by approximately $31 million and in Japan by $34 million relative to last year. We regularly review our reinsurance protection and corresponding property catastrophe exposures. This may or may not lead to the purchase of additional reinsurance prior to a programs renewal date. In addition, prior to each renewal date, we consider how much, if any, coverage we intend to buy and we may make material changes to the current structure in light of various factors, including modeled PML assessment at various return periods, reinsurance pricing, our risk tolerance and exposures, and various other structuring considerations. 77 Table of Contents Crop insurance We are, and have been since the 1980s, one of the leading writers of crop insurance in the U.S. and have conducted that business through an MGA subsidiary of Rain and Hail. As discussed under Acquisitions, on December 28, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail not previously owned by us. Prior to this transaction, ACE owned approximately 20 percent of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail. We provide protection throughout the U.S. and are therefore geographically diversified, which reduces the risk of exposure to a single event or a heavy accumulation of losses in any one region. Our crop insurance business comprises two components multi peril crop insurance (MPCI) and hail insurance. The MPCI program is a partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The policies cover revenue shortfalls or production losses due to natural causes such as drought, excessive moisture, hail, wind, frost, insects, and disease. Generally, policies have deductibles ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent of the insureds risk. The USDAs Risk Management Agency (RMA) sets the policy terms and conditions, rates and forms, and is also responsible for setting compliance standards. As a participating company, we report all details of policies underwritten to the RMA and are party to a Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA), which sets out the relationship between private insurance companies and the federal government concerning the terms and conditions regarding the risks each will bear. In addition to the pro rata and excess of loss reinsurance protections inherent in the SRA, we cede business on a quota share basis to third party reinsurers and further protect our net retained position through the purchase of stop loss reinsurance in the private market place. In July 2010, the RMA released a final version of a new SRA (the 2011 SRA), replacing the prior agreement which expired on June 30, 2010. The 2011 SRA applies to the 2011 Crop year, and therefore there is minimal impact from the new agreement on our 2010 financial results. Similar to the recently expired SRA, the 2011 SRA contains the pro rata and state stop loss provisions which continue to allow companies to limit the exposure of any one state or group of states on their underwriting results. Generally, it also continues to allow companies to selectively retain the more attractive risks while ceding the historically less profitable risks to the federal government. While the 2011 SRA does reduce the potential underwriting profit, it also decreases the maximum underwriting loss, compared with the prior version. Despite the potential underwriting profitability reduction, we believe the 2011 SRA allows for an acceptable rate of return in 2011. Our hail program is a private offering. We use industry data to develop our own rates and forms for the coverage offered. The policy primarily protects farmers against yield reduction caused by hail and or fire, and related costs such as transit to storage. We offer various deductibles to allow the grower to partially self insure for a reduced premium cost. We limit our hail exposures through the use of township liability limits, quota share reinsurance cessions, and stop loss reinsurance on our net retained hail business. On the MPCI business, we recognize net premiums written as we receive acreage reports from the policyholders on the various crops throughout the U.S. The program has specific timeframes as to when producers must report acreage to us. These reports allow us to determine the actual premium associated with the liability that is being planted. Once the net premium written has been booked, the premium is then earned over the growing season for the crops. Given the major crops that are covered in the program, we typically see a substantial written premium impact in the second and third quarters and the earned premium is also more concentrated in the second and third quarters. Premium is earned on the hail program over the coverage period of the policy. Given the very short nature of the growing season, most hail business is typically written in the second and third quarters with the earned premium also more heavily occurring during this time frame. Prior to the acquisition of Rain and Hail, we regularly received reports relating to the previous crop year(s), resulting in adjustments to previously reported premiums, losses and loss expenses, and profit share commissions. The adjustments were typically more significant in the first quarter of the year (annual first quarter settlement), compared with other periods. Following the Rain and Hail acquisition closing on December 28, 2010, we have access to such information sooner and as a result the more significant changes in estimate that occurred in the first quarter in prior years now occurs in the fourth quarter. Political Risk, Trade Credit, and Structured Trade Credit Political risk insurance is a specialized coverage that provides clients with protection against unexpected, catastrophic political or macroeconomic events, primarily in developing markets. We participate in this market through our wholly owned subsidiary Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd. (Sovereign), and through a unit of our London based ACE Global Markets operation. Sovereign is one of the worlds leading underwriters of political risk insurance and has a global portfolio spread across more than 100 countries. Its clients include financial institutions, national export credit agencies, leading multilateral agencies, and multinational corporations. ACE Global Markets writes political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit business out of underwriting offices in London, Hamburg, New York, Los Angeles, and Singapore. 78 Table of Contents Our political risk insurance provides protection to commercial lenders against defaults on cross border loans, insulates investors against equity losses, and protects exporters against defaults on contracts. Commercial lenders, our largest client segment, are covered for missed scheduled loan repayments due to acts of confiscation, expropriation or nationalization by the host government; currency inconvertibility or exchange transfer restrictions, or war or other acts of political violence. In addition, in the case of loans to government owned entities or loans that have a government guarantee, political risk policies cover scheduled payments against risks of nonpayment or non honoring of government guarantees. Equity investors and corporations receive similar coverage to that of lenders, except they are protected against financial losses, inability to repatriate dividends, and physical damage to their operations caused by covered events. Our export contracts protection provides coverage for both exporters and their financing banks against the risk of contract frustration due to government actions, including non payment by government entities. ACE Global Markets trade credit and structured trade credit businesses cover losses due to insolvency, protracted default, and political risk perils including export and license cancellation. It provides trade credit coverage to larger companies that have sophisticated credit risk management systems, with exposure to multiple customers and that have the ability to self insure losses up to a certain level through excess of loss coverage. Its structured trade credit business provides coverage to trade finance banks, exporters, and trading companies, with exposure to trade related financing instruments. We have implemented structural features in our policies in order to control potential losses within the political risk, trade credit, and structured credit businesses. These include basic loss sharing features that include co insurance and deductibles, and in the case of trade credit, the use of non qualifying losses that drop smaller exposures deemed too difficult to assess. Ultimate loss severity is also limited by using waiting periods to enable the insurer and insured to agree on recovery strategies, and the subrogation of the rights of the lender/exporter to the insurer following a claim. We have the option to pay claims over the original loan payment schedule, rather than in a lump sum in order to provide insureds and the insurer additional time to remedy problems and work towards full recoveries. It is important to note that political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit policies are named peril conditional contracts, not financial guarantees, and claims are only paid after conditions and warranties are fulfilled. Political risk, trade credit, and structured trade credit insurance do not cover currency devaluations, bond defaults, any form of derivatives, movements in overseas equity markets, transactions deemed illegal, or situations where corruption or misrepresentation has occurred, or debt that is not legally enforceable. In addition to assessing and mitigating potential exposure on a policy by policy basis, we also have specific risk management measures in place to manage overall exposure and risk. These measures include placing country and individual transaction limits based on country risk and credit ratings, combined single loss limits on multi country policies, the use of reinsurance protection, and regular modeling and stress testing of the portfolio. Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet the short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, ACE Limiteds cash flows depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, fees, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used at our various companies primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. We anticipate that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) should be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2011. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and available credit facilities. Refer to Credit Facilities below. Our access to funds under existing credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Our existing credit facilities have remaining terms expiring between 2012 and 2014 and require that we maintain certain financial covenants, all of which we met at December 31, 2010. Should any of our existing credit providers experience financial difficulty, we may be required to replace credit sources, possibly in a difficult market. There has also been recent consolidation in the banking industry which could lead to increased reliance on and exposure to particular institutions. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing any of our credit facilities. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with 79 Table of Contents the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such duration tends to be longer. Given the current low interest rate environment, at December 31, 2010, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.7 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.5 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables, or increases in collateral postings under our variable annuity reinsurance business). Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could be required to liquidate a portion of our investments, potentially at distressed prices, as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies. During 2010, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payments of dividends declared on our Common Shares with our net cash flows. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. ACE Tempest Life Re paid dividends of $200 million in 2010 and $350 million in 2009. ACE Bermuda dividends were nil in 2010 and 2009. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. The U.S. insurance subsidiaries of ACE INA may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Debt issued by ACE INA is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Cash Flows Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate of future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for 2010 and 2009. The operating cash flows reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $3.5 billion in 2010, compared with $3.3 billion in 2009. Net loss and loss expenses paid were $7.4 billion in 2010, compared with $6.9 billion in 2009. Operating cash flow increased in 2010, in part due to net collections of insurance and reinsurance balances. Operating cash flow in 2009 included higher than typical net claim payments in connection with prior year catastrophes and other individual large losses, and an increase in tax payments. In addition, during 2009, operating cash flow was adversely impacted by the return of collateral collected in 2008. 80 Table of Contents Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.2 billion in 2010, compared with $3.2 billion in 2009. Net investing activities for the indicated periods were related primarily to net purchases of fixed maturities and for 2010 included the acquisitions of Rain and Hail and Jerneh Insurance Berhad. Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $732 million in 2010, compared with net cash flows used for financing activities of $321 million in 2009. Net cash flows from/used for financing activities in 2010 and 2009, included dividends paid on our Common Shares of $435 million and $388 million, respectively. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2010, included net proceeds of $699 million from the issuance of long term debt, $1 billion in reverse repurchase agreements, and $300 million in credit facility borrowings. This was partially offset by repayment of $659 million in debt and share repurchases settled in 2010 of $235 million. For 2009, net cash flows used for financing activities included net proceeds from the issuance of $500 million in long term debt and the net repayment of debt and reverse repurchase agreements of $466 million. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. From time to time, we utilize reverse repurchase agreements as a low cost alternative for short term funding needs. We use these instruments on a limited basis to address short term cash timing differences without disrupting our investment portfolio holdings and settle the transactions with future operating cash flows. At December 31, 2010, there were $1 billion in reverse repurchase agreements outstanding (refer to Short term Debt). In addition to cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements, we have agreements with a bank provider which implemented two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). Our revolving credit facility allows for same day drawings to fund a net pool overdraft should participating ACE entities withdraw contributed funds from the pool. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2010, and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Short term debt $ 1,300 $ 161 Long term debt 3,358 3,158 Total debt 4,658 3,319 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Total shareholders equity 22,974 19,667 Total capitalization $ 27,941 $ 23,295 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 16.7% 14.2% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 17.8% 15.6% Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have increased temporarily due to the increase in short term debt, as discussed below. We expect that these ratios will decline over the next six to nine months as we repay the short term debt. We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain available funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. 81 Table of Contents The following table reports the significant movements in our shareholders equity for the year ended December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 Balance, beginning of year $ 19,667 Net income 3,108 Dividends declared on Common Shares (443 ) Change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments, net of tax 742 Repurchase of shares (303 ) Other movements, net of tax 203 Balance, end of year $ 22,974 Total shareholders equity increased $3.3 billion in 2010, primarily due to net income of $3.1 billion and the change in net unrealized appreciation on investments of $742 million. Short term Debt At December 31, 2010, in connection with the financing of the Rain and Hail acquisition, short term debt includes reverse repurchase agreements totaling $1 billion. In addition, $300 million in borrowings against ACEs revolving credit facility were outstanding at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, short term debt consisted of a five year term loan which we repaid in December 2010. Long term Debt Our total long term debt increased by $200 million during the year to $3.4 billion and is described in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In November 2010, ACE INA issued $700 million of 2.6 percent senior notes due November 2015. These senior unsecured notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by the Company and they rank equally with all of the Companys other senior obligations. In April 2008, as part of the financing of the Combined Insurance acquisition, ACE INA entered into a $450 million floating interest rate syndicated term loan agreement due April 2013. Simultaneously, the Company entered into a swap transaction that had the economic effect of fixing the interest rate for the term of the loan. In December 2010, ACE repaid this loan and exited the swap. In December 2008, ACE INA entered into a $66 million dual tranche floating interest rate term loan agreement. The first tranche, a $50 million three year term loan due December 2011, had a floating interest rate. Simultaneously, the Company entered into a swap transaction that had the economic effect of fixing the interest rate for the term of the loan. In December 2010, ACE repaid this loan and exited the swap. The second tranche, a $16 million nine month term loan, was due and repaid in September 2009. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entity are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 9 d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Common Shares Our Common Shares had a par value of CHF 30.57 each at December 31, 2010. At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2010, the Companys shareholders approved a par value reduction in an aggregate Swiss franc amount, pursuant to a formula, equal to $1.32 per share, which we refer to as the Base Annual Dividend. The Base Annual Dividend is payable in four installments, provided that each of the Swiss franc installments will be 82 Table of Contents adjusted pursuant to the formula so that the actual Swiss franc par value reduction amount for each installment will equal $0.33, subject to an aggregate upward adjustment, which we refer to as the Dividend Cap, for the four installments of 50 percent of the Base Annual Dividend. Application of the formula means that the Swiss franc amount of each installment will be determined in advance of distribution while the U.S. dollar value of the installment will remain $0.33 unless and until the Dividend Cap is reached. Par value reduction that would otherwise exceed the Dividend Cap will be reduced to equal the Swiss franc amount remaining available under the Dividend Cap and the U.S. dollar amount distributed will be the then applicable U.S. dollar equivalent of that Swiss franc amount. Should we determine to pay dividends other than by a reduction in par value, under Swiss law, such dividends (other than by reductions in par value) may be paid out only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous business years, or if the reserves of the corporation are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. The Board of Directors of a Swiss corporation may propose that a dividend be paid, but cannot itself set the dividend. The Company auditors must confirm that the dividend proposal of the board of directors conforms with Swiss statutory law. Prior to the distribution of dividends, five percent of the annual profits must be allocated to the general reserve until the amount of general reserves has reached twenty percent of the paid in nominal share capital. Our Swiss Articles of Association can provide for a higher general reserve or for the creation of further reserves setting forth their purpose and use. Once this level has been reached and maintained, the shareholders may approve a distribution of each years profit within the framework of applicable legal requirements. Dividends paid from retained earnings are usually due and payable immediately after the shareholders resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. Under Swiss law, the statute of limitations in respect of claims for dividend payments is five years. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2010. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 421 $ 143 $ 60 $ 23 $ 195 Purchase obligations 425 108 182 91 44 Limited partnerships funding commitments 753 323 365 65 Operating leases 397 75 119 83 120 Short term debt 1,300 1,300 Long term debt 3,358 1,646 1,712 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 2,090 207 413 351 1,119 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 9,053 2,156 1,139 2,259 3,499 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,391 9,003 9,727 5,639 13,022 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 3,982 246 392 322 3,022 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 50,426 $ 11,405 $ 11,258 $ 8,220 $ 19,543 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits: The liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, was $139 million at December 31, 2010. We recognize accruals for interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income 83 Table of Contents tax expense. At December 31, 2010, we had $19 million in liabilities for income tax related interest in our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $351 million and contract holder deposit funds of $70 million at December 31, 2010. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through February 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010, and do not take into account reinsurance recoverable. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. 84 Table of Contents Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide collateral, which can be in the form of LOCs. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and to provide underwriting capacity as funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our main credit facilities by credit line, usage, and expiry date at December 31, 2010. (in millions of U.S. dollars) CreditLine(1) Usage Expiry Date Syndicated Letter of Credit Facility $ 1,000 $ 574 Nov. 2012 Revolving Credit/LOC Facility(2) 500 370 Nov. 2012 Bilateral Letter of Credit Facility 500 500 Sept. 2014 Funds at Lloydss Capital Facilities(3) 400 340 Dec. 2015 Total $ 2,400 $ 1,784 (1)Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2)May also be used for LOCs. (3)Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488 (see discussion below). In November 2010, we entered into four letter of credit facility agreements which collectively permit the issuance of up to $400 million of letters of credit. We expect that most of the LOCs issued under the LOC agreements will be used to support the ongoing Funds at Lloyds requirements of Syndicate 2488, but LOCs may also be used for other general corporate purposes. It is anticipated that our commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by ACE. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, we could be required to provide alternative security to clients. This could take the form of additional insurance trusts supported by our investment portfolio or funds withheld using our cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, statutory liabilities reported by variable annuity guarantee reinsurance clients, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business, and loss experience of such business. The facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2010. These covenants include: (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $13.8 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Common and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2010, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $14.5 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $21.6 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.167 to 1, which is below the maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.35 to 1 as described in (ii) above. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Ratings ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our internet site, www.acegroup.com, 85 Table of Contents also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab but such information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal and interest. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. For example, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the S&P financial strength rating of ACE falls to BBB+ or lower. Also, we have insurance and reinsurance contracts which contain rating triggers. In the event the S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings of ACE fall to BBB+ or lower, we may be faced with the cancellation of premium or be required to post collateral on our underlying obligation associated with this premium. We estimate that at December 31, 2010, a one notch downgrade of our S&P or A.M. Best financial strength ratings would result in an immaterial loss of premium or requirement for collateral to be posted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through writing the GLB and GMDB products, we are exposed to volatility in the equity and credit markets, as well as interest rates and the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed income securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income portfolio is classified as available for sale. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when we record an OTTI charge in net income. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $7.9 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore, have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2010. Our policies to address these risks in 2010 were not materially different from 2009. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. 86 Table of Contents Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2010 and 2009, on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 48,983 $ 44,753 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,806 $ 1,623 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.7% 3.6% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Although our debt and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact at December 31, 2010 and 2009, on the market value of our debt obligations of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the U.S. yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario). (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of debt obligations $ 5,522 $ 3,905 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 282 $ 241 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 5.1% 6.2% Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2010 2009 Fair value of equity securities $ 692 $ 467 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 69 $ 47 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 87 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2010 and 2009. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) 2010 2009 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,850 $ 3,895 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 16.8% 19.8% Pre tax impact on shareholders equity of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 332 $ 336 Reinsurance of GMDB and GLB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the benefit reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GLB. The benefit reserves are calculated in accordance with the provisions of Topic 944, related to accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain non traditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts. Changes in the benefit reserves are reflected as policy benefits expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GLB liability (FVL), which is classified as a derivative for accounting purposes. The FVL established for a GLB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the benefit reserves. Changes in the FVL, net of associated changes in the calculated benefit reserves, are reflected as realized gains or losses. ACE views its variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small, at the time of pricing. Adverse changes in market factors and policyholder behavior will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk and reward. At December 31, 2010, management established benefit reserves based on the benefit ratio calculated using assumptions reflecting managements best estimate of the future performance of the variable annuity line of business. Management exercises judgment in determining the extent to which short term market movements impact the benefit reserves. The benefit reserves are based on the calculation of a long term benefit ratio (or loss ratio) for the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance. Despite the long term nature of the risk, the benefit ratio calculation is impacted by short term market movements that may be judged by management to be temporary or transient. Managements best estimate reflected a judgment that the equity markets will exhibit sub par growth over the next several years. Management regularly examines both quantitative and qualitative analysis and for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, determined that no change to the benefit ratio was warranted. The benefit ratio used to establish the benefit reserves at December 31, 2010, has averaged less than 1/4 standard deviation from the calculated benefit ratios, averaging the periodic results from the time the benefit ratio was changed during the first quarter of 2009 until December 31, 2010. Topic 944 requires ACE to regularly evaluate estimates used and adjust the liability balance if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. ACE evaluates its estimates regularly and management uses judgment to determine the extent to which the assumptions underlying the benefit ratio calculation used to establish benefit reserves should be adjusted. The benefit ratio will be calculated based on managements expectation for the short term and long term performance of the variable annuity guarantee liability. Managements quantitative analysis includes a review of the differential between the benefit ratio used at the most recent valuation date and the benefit ratio calculated on subsequent dates. The differential is measured in terms of the standard deviation of the distribution of benefit ratios (reflecting 1,000 stochastic scenarios) calculated on subsequent dates. 88 Table of Contents The benefit reserves and FVL calculations are directly affected by market factors, including equity levels, interest rate levels, credit risk, and implied volatilities, as well as policyholder behaviors, such as annuitization and lapse rates. The tables below show the sensitivity, at December 31, 2010, of the benefit reserves and FVL associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. In addition, the tables below show the sensitivity of the fair value of specific derivative instruments held (hedge value), which includes only those instruments owned at the reporting date, to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Worldwide Equity Shock Interest Rate Shock +10% Flat 10% 20% 30% 40% (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 49 $ 14 $ (42 ) $ (134 ) $ (266 ) $ (446) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 208 108 (16 ) (186 ) (411 ) (656 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (123 ) (6 ) 112 232 355 480 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 134 $ 116 $ 54 $ (88 ) $ (322 ) $ (622 ) Flat (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 36 $ $(59) $ (155 ) $ (258 ) $ (432 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 141 (185 ) (442 ) (763 ) (1,072 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (117 ) 119 240 363 489 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 60 $ $ (125) $ (357) $ (658) $ (1,015 ) 100 bps (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 20 $ (17 ) $ (81 ) $ (182 ) $ (329 ) $ (532 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL (4 ) (212 ) (492 ) (812 ) (1,151 ) (1,488 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value (111 ) 7 127 249 373 499 Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (95 ) $ (222 ) $ (446 ) $ (745 ) $ (1,107 ) $ (1,521 ) Sensitivities to Other Economic Variables AA rated Credit Spreads Interest Rate Volatility Equity Volatility (in millions of U.S. dollars) +100 100 +2% 2% +2% 2% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ $ $ $ $ $ (Increase)/decrease in FVL 46 (60 ) (12 ) (1 ) (15 ) 15 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value 4 (4 ) Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 46 $ (60 ) $ (12 ) $ (1 ) $ (11 ) $ 11 Sensitivities to Actuarial Assumptions Mortality (in millions of U.S. dollars) +20% +10% 10% 20% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (35 ) $ (18 ) $ 19 $ 39 (Increase)/decrease in FVL 17 9 (9 ) (18 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (18 ) $ (9 ) $ 10 $ 21 Lapses (in millions of U.S. dollars) +50% +25% 25% 50% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ 53 $ 29 $ (37 ) $ (82 ) (Increase)/decrease in FVL 138 79 (106 ) (237 ) Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ 191 $ 108 $ (143 ) $ (319 ) Annuitization (in millions of U.S. dollars) +50% +25% 25% 50% (Increase)/decrease in benefit reserves $ (24 ) $ (13 ) $ 16 $ 35 (Increase)/decrease in FVL (112 ) (61 ) 52 103 Increase/(decrease) in hedge value Increase/(decrease) in net income $ (136 ) $ (74 ) $ 68 $ 138 89 Table of Contents The above tables assume benefit reserves and FVL using the benefit ratio calculated at December 31, 2010. Additionally, the above table assumes equity shocks impact all global equity markets equally and that the interest rate shock is a parallel shift in the U.S. yield curve. Although our liabilities have sensitivity to global equity markets, we would suggest using the S&P 500 as a proxy and although our liabilities have sensitivity to global interest rates at various points on the yield curve, we would suggest using the 10 year U.S. Treasury yield as a proxy. A change in AA rated credit spreads (AA rated credit spreads are a proxy for both ACEs own credit spreads and the credit spreads of the ceding insurers), impacts the rate used to discount cash flows in the fair value model. The hedge sensitivity is from December 31, 2010, market levels. The above sensitivities are not directly additive because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors. Also, the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the benefit reserves and FVL is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including lapse, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the benefit reserves and the FVL as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. Additionally, actual sensitivity of our benefit reserves, FVL, and net income may differ from those disclosed in the tables above due to differences between short term market movements and management judgment regarding the long term assumptions implicit in our benefit ratio. Furthermore, the sensitivities above could vary by multiples of the sensitivities in the tables above. 
 
