Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (FICO) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICOs bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDICs risk related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2010 was 1.04 cents per $100 deposits and will decline to 1.02 cents per $100 deposits for the first quarter of 2011. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of $10 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2010. Acquisitions The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5 percent or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Effective July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well capitalized and well managed effective July 2011. The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. In addition, the Federal Reserve must take into account the institutions effectiveness in combating money laundering. FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the TLGP), under which the FDIC would guarantee certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC insured U.S. depository institutions and U.S. bank holding companies as well as non interest bearing transaction account deposits at FDIC insured U.S. depository institutions, unless such institutions opted out of the program. Regions and Regions Bank both participated in the TLGP. Although the guarantee of non interest bearing transaction account deposits under the 15 Table of Contents TLGP ended on June 30, 2010, the Dodd Frank Act provides for unlimited FDIC deposit insurance coverage on non interest bearing transaction accounts at all insured institutions, regardless of participation in the TLGP, until January 1, 2013. On December 11, 2008, Regions Bank issued and sold $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its senior bank notes guaranteed under the TLGP. Regions Bank issued and sold an additional $250 million aggregate principal amount of FDIC guaranteed senior bank notes on December 16, 2008. Under the TLGP, the FDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest on such FDIC guaranteed debt instruments upon the uncured failure of Regions Bank to make a timely payment of principal or interest. Neither Regions nor Regions Bank is permitted to use the proceeds from the sale of securities guaranteed under the TLGP to prepay any of its other debt that is not guaranteed by the FDIC. U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program Pursuant to the CPP, on November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in a private offering, (i) 3.5 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a warrant (the Warrant) to purchase 48,253,677 shares of Regions common stock, at an exercise price of $10.88 per share, subject to certain anti dilution and other adjustments, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5 billion in cash. The securities purchase agreement, dated November 14, 2008, pursuant to which the securities issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP were sold, limits the payment of dividends on Regions common stock to $0.10 per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury, limits Regions ability to repurchase shares of its common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity based compensation awards), grants the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrant and the common stock of Regions to be issued under the Warrant certain registration rights in order to facilitate resale, and subjects Regions to certain of the executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Depositor Preference Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. Incentive Compensation Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the Incentive Compensation Guidance) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organizations incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk taking beyond the organizations ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organizations board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organizations supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation 16 Table of Contents arrangements or related risk management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organizations safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. In February 2011, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking agencies requested comments on a notice of proposed rulemaking designed to implement provisions of the Dodd Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at a covered institution, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1.0 billion or more of assets, such as Regions and Regions Bank. The proposed rule (i) prohibits incentive based compensation arrangements that encourage executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders to expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation (based on the standards for excessive compensation adopted pursuant to the FDIA) and (ii) prohibits incentive based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders that could lead to a material financial loss for the institution. The proposed rule requires covered institutions to establish policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating their compensation practices. Institutions with consolidated assets of $50.0 billion or more, such as Regions, are subject to additional restrictions on compensation arrangements for their executive officers and any other persons indentified by the institutions board of directors as having the ability to expose the institution to substantial losses. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of Regions and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees. Orderly Liquidation Authority The Dodd Frank Act creates the Orderly Liquidation Authority (OLA), a resolution regime for systemically important non bank financial companies, including bank holding companies, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This determination must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation between the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the President. This resolution authority is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain modifications to reflect differences between depository institutions and non bank financial companies and to reduce disparities between the treatment of creditors claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an orderly liquidation authority proceeding compared to those that would exist under the resolution model for insured depository institutions. An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50.0 billion or more, such as Regions. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, Regions could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. We do not yet have an indication of the level of such assessments. Financial Privacy The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non public information about consumers to non affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer 17 Table of Contents information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. Community Reinvestment Act Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institutions discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institutions record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The regulatory agencys assessment of the institutions record is made available to the public. The assessment also is part of the Federal Reserves consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. Regions Bank received a satisfactory CRA rating in its most recent examination. USA PATRIOT Act A focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the USA PATRIOT Act) broadened the application of anti money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Acts requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions banking, broker dealer and insurance subsidiaries have augmented their systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the OFAC rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The OFAC administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment related advice or assistance to, 18 Table of Contents a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers Regions operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of Regions insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations. Regulation of Morgan Keegan Morgan Keegan is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA, NYSE and other SROs. Such regulations cover a broad range of subject matter. Rules and regulations for registered broker dealers cover such issues as: capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. Rules and regulations for registered investment advisers include limitations on the ability of investment advisers to charge performance based or non refundable fees to clients, record keeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on principal transactions between an adviser or its affiliates and advisory clients, and anti fraud standards. Morgan Keegan is subject to the net capital requirements set forth in Rule 15c3 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The net capital requirements measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker dealer by specifying a minimum level of net capital that a broker dealer must maintain, and by requiring that a significant portion of its assets be kept liquid. If Morgan Keegan failed to maintain its minimum required net capital, it would be required to cease executing customer transactions until it came back into compliance. This could also result in Morgan Keegan losing its FINRA membership, its registration with the SEC or require a complete liquidation. The SECs risk assessment rules also apply to Morgan Keegan as a registered broker dealer. These rules require broker dealers to maintain and preserve records and certain information, describe risk management policies and procedures, and report on the financial condition of affiliates whose financial and securities activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial and operational condition of the broker dealer. Certain material associated persons of Morgan Keegan, as defined in the risk assessment rules, may also be subject to SEC regulation. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker dealers and investment advisers. Morgan Keegan is registered as a broker dealer with every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Morgan Keegan is registered as an investment adviser in over 40 states and the District of Columbia. Violations of federal, state and SRO rules or regulations may result in the revocation of broker dealer or investment adviser licenses, imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion of officers and employees from the securities business firm. 19 Table of Contents The Dodd Frank Act contains several provisions which may affect Morgan Keegans business, including registration of municipal advisors, increased regulation of investment advisors and conducting a study regarding the fiduciary duties of investment advisors. Morgan Keegans business may be adversely affected by new rules and regulations issued by the SEC or SROs, the implementation of provisions of the Dodd Frank Act applicable to Morgan Keegan, and any changes in the enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect its securities business. Competition All aspects of Regions business are highly competitive. Regions subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, investment companies, mutual funds, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by Regions subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although Regions position varies in different markets, Regions believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. Employees As of December 31, 2010, Regions and its subsidiaries had 27,829 employees. Available Information Regions maintains a website at www.regions.com. Regions makes available on its website free of charge its annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports which are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on Regions website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are Regions (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Expenditures Policy, and (v) the charters of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets since 2008 have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. Although the economic slowdown that the United States experienced has begun to reverse and the markets have generally improved, business activities across a wide range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Heightened unemployment levels have further increased these difficulties. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; 20 Table of Contents A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to potential reductions in interest rates; and An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Overall, during the past three years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business. Although the general business environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write downs, initially of mortgage backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge offs and provisions for credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Our status as a non investment grade issuer and any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs or place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers. The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past two years, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions and Regions Banks credit ratings, and many of our ratings remain on negative watch or negative outlook. Negative watch, negative outlook or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. Most recently, Regions Senior ratings were downgraded to Ba3, BB+, BBB and BBB by Moodys Investor Services, Standard & Poors, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service, respectively. Our ratings with Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors are below investment grade. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future. 21 Table of Contents The decreases in our credit rating over the past two years, our status as a non investment grade issuer and any future decrease in our credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies could impact our access to the capital markets or short term funding or increase our financing costs, and thereby adversely affect Regions financial condition and liquidity. Where Regions Bank is providing forms of credit support such as letters of credit, standby lending arrangements or other forms of credit support, this recent decline and future declines may cause customers of Regions to seek replacement credit support from a higher rated institution and may limit our ability to compete for future business. Our counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and have the ability to terminate or may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in transactions with us at a substantially higher cost. We cannot predict whether customer relationships or opportunities for future relationships could be adversely affected by customers who choose to do business with a higher rated institution. The inability to retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on Regions business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis such that the rating agencies may make or may be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices. Such changes may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had approximately $1.4 billion in net deferred tax assets, of which $424 million was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our regulatory capital. The inability to include deferred tax assets in our regulatory capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax to prior years taxable income, reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2010 (except for $30 million related to state deferred tax assets for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self regulatory agencies regarding their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed lender liability. Generally, 22 Table of Contents lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2010, investor real estate loans secured by land, single family and condominium properties, plus home equity loans secured by second liens in Florida represented approximately 8 percent of our total loan portfolio. These portions of our loan portfolio have been under pressure for over three years and, due to weakening credit quality, we have increased our loan loss provision and our total allowance for credit losses. In addition, we have implemented several measures to support the management of these sections of the loan portfolio, including reassignment of experienced, key relationship managers to focus on work out strategies for distressed borrowers. While we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the downward credit cycle, the weaknesses in these sections of our loan portfolio are expected to continue well into 2011. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our non performing asset and charge off levels will remain elevated. Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with decreases in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. Specifically, a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. For example, prices of Florida properties remain under significant pressure, with high unemployment levels relative to periods prior to 2008 and the continuing impact of the recent real estate downturn on the general economy. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing on a loan. Continuing weakness in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our performance. The fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain weak, under continuing pressure from reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 19 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. Investor real estate loans secured by land, single family and condominiums continue to be impacted by declining property values, especially in areas where Regions has significant lending activities, including Florida and north Georgia. The properties securing income producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrowers ability to repay the loan is instead reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrowers successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrowers business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may remain at elevated levels in 2011. High vacancy rates could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration of one or more loans we have made. Any such deterioration could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated. Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by Regions Bank in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Regions Banks commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of these geographical areas for over three years have had a negative impact on the financial results of our banking operations and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future adverse changes may also negatively effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Improvements in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the financial services industry may lag improvements in the general economy. The improvement of certain economic indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities. On November 14, 2008, we issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. Several financial institutions which also participated in the CPP (including some banks considered to be our peer banks) have exited, or have applied for permission to exit, the program. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative implications regarding the strength of Regions as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have exited the CPP to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 24 Table of Contents Our participation in the U.S. Treasurys CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets. Prior to November 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock purchased by the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock prior to November 15, 2013, the dividends on the preferred stock will increase substantially, from 5 percent ($175 million annually) to 9 percent ($315 million annually). We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of bank holding companies and state chartered banks, and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations and financial condition of Regions Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, to the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of Regions, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators, and our non bank subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. As a result, we are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the Capital Ratios section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, implements a variety of far reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the 1930s. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including: Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, and numerous other requirements on systemically significant institutions, currently defined to include, among other things, all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions); 25 Table of Contents Establishment of the FSOC to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms; Mandates requiring the Federal Reserve to establish standards for determining whether interchange fees charged by certain financial institutions are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by such institutions; Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to systemically significant institutions to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates; Establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under the U.S. Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our debt ratings are currently not investment grade according to some credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past three years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009 and required banks to prepay three years worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC recently increased the DIFs target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd Frank Acts elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIFs reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the FDIC must amend its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Currently, we are assessed only on deposit balances, and this change may result in a substantial increase in the base to which the assessment rate is applied. The FDIC adopted a rule implementing this change, as well as adopting a revised risk based assessment calculation in February 2011. The FDIC has also proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institutions employee compensation programs. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increase may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each of Regions and Regions Bank must maintain. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we likely will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more 27 Table of Contents information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Proposed rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve requested comment on a proposed rule which would take effect on July 21, 2011 and which, if enacted, would significantly impact the amount of interchange fees collected by Regions Bank. The proposed rule contains two alternative restrictions on the permissible level of interchange fees: a uniform restriction of 12 cents per transaction and an issuer specific restriction containing a safe harbor of 7 cents per transaction and a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions, and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than the 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the proposed rule would be applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and do not include adjustments associated with costs resulting from compliance with the issuers fraud prevention policies, which are expected to be included at a later date. The proposed rule would also prohibit issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to: (1) one network; or (2) two or more networks that are owned, controlled or operated by affiliates or networks affiliated with the issuer. To implement the network exclusivity restrictions of the proposed rule, the Federal Reserve has offered two alternative methods for comment. One alternative (Alternative A) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of payment card networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. The other alternative (Alternative B) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks for each method by which a transaction may be authorized. In the event the Federal Reserve adopts Alternative B, considerable costs and immense operational complexity will be associated with its implementation. In 2010, Regions Bank collected $346 million in debit card income, and without mitigating actions this amount could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues resulting from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of 28 Table of Contents current levels, absent any mitigating actions, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Due to losses recorded at Regions Bank during 2009 and 2010, under the Federal Reserves rules, Regions Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.6 billion of goodwill and $385 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. Additionally, if the fair values of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our current one year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions twelve month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short term and long term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the Net Interest Income and Margin and Market Risk Interest Rate Risk sections of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Regions portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the Securities section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, implements a variety of far reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the 1930s. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including: Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, and numerous other requirements on systemically significant institutions, currently defined to include, among other things, all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions); 25 Table of Contents Establishment of the FSOC to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms; Mandates requiring the Federal Reserve to establish standards for determining whether interchange fees charged by certain financial institutions are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by such institutions; Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to systemically significant institutions to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates; Establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under the U.S. Treasurys Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our debt ratings are currently not investment grade according to some credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past three years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009 and required banks to prepay three years worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC recently increased the DIFs target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd Frank Acts elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIFs reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the FDIC must amend its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Currently, we are assessed only on deposit balances, and this change may result in a substantial increase in the base to which the assessment rate is applied. The FDIC adopted a rule implementing this change, as well as adopting a revised risk based assessment calculation in February 2011. The FDIC has also proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institutions employee compensation programs. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increase may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each of Regions and Regions Bank must maintain. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we likely will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more 27 Table of Contents information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Proposed rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve requested comment on a proposed rule which would take effect on July 21, 2011 and which, if enacted, would significantly impact the amount of interchange fees collected by Regions Bank. The proposed rule contains two alternative restrictions on the permissible level of interchange fees: a uniform restriction of 12 cents per transaction and an issuer specific restriction containing a safe harbor of 7 cents per transaction and a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions, and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than the 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the proposed rule would be applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and do not include adjustments associated with costs resulting from compliance with the issuers fraud prevention policies, which are expected to be included at a later date. The proposed rule would also prohibit issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to: (1) one network; or (2) two or more networks that are owned, controlled or operated by affiliates or networks affiliated with the issuer. To implement the network exclusivity restrictions of the proposed rule, the Federal Reserve has offered two alternative methods for comment. One alternative (Alternative A) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of payment card networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. The other alternative (Alternative B) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks for each method by which a transaction may be authorized. In the event the Federal Reserve adopts Alternative B, considerable costs and immense operational complexity will be associated with its implementation. In 2010, Regions Bank collected $346 million in debit card income, and without mitigating actions this amount could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues resulting from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of 28 Table of Contents current levels, absent any mitigating actions, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Due to losses recorded at Regions Bank during 2009 and 2010, under the Federal Reserves rules, Regions Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.6 billion of goodwill and $385 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. Additionally, if the fair values of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our current one year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions twelve month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short term and long term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the Net Interest Income and Margin and Market Risk Interest Rate Risk sections of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Regions portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the Securities section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Proposed rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gives the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve requested comment on a proposed rule which would take effect on July 21, 2011 and which, if enacted, would significantly impact the amount of interchange fees collected by Regions Bank. The proposed rule contains two alternative restrictions on the permissible level of interchange fees: a uniform restriction of 12 cents per transaction and an issuer specific restriction containing a safe harbor of 7 cents per transaction and a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions, and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than the 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the proposed rule would be applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and do not include adjustments associated with costs resulting from compliance with the issuers fraud prevention policies, which are expected to be included at a later date. The proposed rule would also prohibit issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to: (1) one network; or (2) two or more networks that are owned, controlled or operated by affiliates or networks affiliated with the issuer. To implement the network exclusivity restrictions of the proposed rule, the Federal Reserve has offered two alternative methods for comment. One alternative (Alternative A) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of payment card networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. The other alternative (Alternative B) prohibits networks and issuers from limiting the number of networks available for processing an electronic debit transaction to fewer than two unaffiliated networks for each method by which a transaction may be authorized. In the event the Federal Reserve adopts Alternative B, considerable costs and immense operational complexity will be associated with its implementation. In 2010, Regions Bank collected $346 million in debit card income, and without mitigating actions this amount could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues resulting from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of 28 Table of Contents current levels, absent any mitigating actions, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Due to losses recorded at Regions Bank during 2009 and 2010, under the Federal Reserves rules, Regions Bank may not be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.6 billion of goodwill and $385 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. Additionally, if the fair values of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our current one year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions twelve month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short term and long term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the Net Interest Income and Margin and Market Risk Interest Rate Risk sections of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Regions portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the Securities section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporate borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.6 billion of goodwill and $385 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. Additionally, if the fair values of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our current one year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions twelve month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short term and long term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the Net Interest Income and Margin and Market Risk Interest Rate Risk sections of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Regions portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the Securities section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Regions portfolio segments, particularly investor real estate, include products where terms are tied to benchmark interest rates, such as LIBOR. An increasing interest rate environment would increase debt service requirements for borrowers with these types of products. Such increases may impact the borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the Securities section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely 30 Table of Contents impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the recent Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Additionally, the Dodd Frank Act eliminated certain restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to open branches across state lines, a change which may also cause competition among financial services companies to intensify. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions ability to market its products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to use alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. Any resulting loss of deposits could impact our cost of funding, and, together with any lost income generated by this loss of business, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, 31 Table of Contents including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects, any of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can result in negative public opinion about our other business. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to 32 Table of Contents parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. An outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. 33 Table of Contents Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects on the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 34 Table of Contents The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock section of Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the 35 Table of Contents acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2010, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,772 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from over 321 offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2010, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Bank branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. 36 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,455 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2010, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2010. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1, 2010 October 31, 2010 $ 23,072,300 November 1, 2010 November 30, 2010 23,072,300 December 1, 2010 December 31, 2010 23,072,300 Total $ 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. As discussed in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) November 14, 2011, or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase Regions common stock will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 38 Table of Contents As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless Regions has redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for Regions to, among other things, increase its common stock dividend above $0.10 except in limited circumstances. Regions has reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 39 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 Regions $ 100.00 $ 114.92 $ 76.26 $ 27.47 $ 18.84 $ 25.07 S&P 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 S&P Banks Index 100.00 115.64 89.40 56.62 52.81 63.96 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 40 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2010 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Credit The distressed economy has increased the risk of default for many loan types. Regions entered 2008 with a concentration in investor real estate products in its Southeastern footprint. Loans extended to real estate developers or investors where repayment depends on sales of real estate, especially those loans secured by land, single family developments and condominiums, experienced the most credit pressure. Income producing investor real estate, including loans secured by multi family and retail developments, also came under pressure. Additionally, the risk profile of home equity products, particularly second lien mortgages in Florida, increased as real estate values fell and unemployment increased in that state. In 2010, credit risk began to moderate. However, an elevated provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion was the catalyst for the net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010. Internally criticized loans and total non accrual loans while still elevated, migrated in favorable directions during 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. Management has therefore maintained the allowance for credit losses at $3.3 billion to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2010, Regions had interest bearing deposits in other banks of $4.9 billion, which primarily consist of deposits at the Federal Reserve. Additionally, the loan to deposit ratio was 88 percent. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2010, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $16.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $1.2 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. Management believes the 41 Table of Contents Companys liquidity position is solid and appropriate. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Interest Rate Risk In the fourth quarter of 2010, the net interest margin expanded to 3.00 percent, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products. Deposit costs decreased from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, and stood at 0.64 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, non performing asset levels, and maintenance of conservative balance sheet liquidity levels. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity undertaken to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. Over the longer term, the eventual rise of benchmark interest rates will have a favorable impact on the net interest margin. The Company entered into an additional series of interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk to interest income if rates continue to remain low in the near term. These swaps offer this protection while reducing asset sensitivity through 2012. Managements 2009 decision to de risk the securities portfolio also impacts the net interest margin. At December 31, 2010, the securities portfolio almost exclusively consisted of agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities. Management expects to achieve a higher margin over the long term as excess liquidity is reinvested, the securities portfolio is repositioned, disciplined loan pricing is emphasized, the composition of the loan portfolio is migrated toward more consumer products and an advantageous deposit mix is maintained. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2010, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios were 12.40 percent and 7.85 percent, respectively. On a Basel III pro forma basis, the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, respectively, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2010 Overview discussion in MD&A Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements 42 Table of Contents GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2010, 2009 and 2008; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In 2010, Regions non interest expense included a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (Morgan Keegan). In 2008, Regions non interest expense included a non cash $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Acquisitions The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non bank acquisition candidates. In February, 2009, Regions acquired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) approximately $285 million in deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. In September, 2008, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from a failed bank headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the banks four branches and provides banking services to its former customers. On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry. 43 Table of Contents During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York. On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (AmSouth), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock for stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in six states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one time pre tax merger related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $3 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the statements of operations. These included $201 million, $351 million, and $89 million in pre tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008. Dispositions During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition. On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly owned non conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (EquiFirst) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after tax loss of approximately $10 million. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has approximately $51 million in book value of sub prime loans retained from the disposition of EquiFirst in 2007, down from the year end 2009 balance of $61 million. Management has considered the credit quality of these loans in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2010, Regions banking and treasury operations reported a loss of $433 million, as credit and credit related costs continued to pressure this business segment. 44 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in 321 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management. In 2010, Morgan Keegans operations reported a loss of $116 million, which was driven by a $200 million regulatory charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $10 million of net income in 2010. Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations The reportable segment designated Merger Charges and Discontinued Operations includes merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition and the results of EquiFirst for the periods presented. These amounts are excluded from other reportable segments because management reviews the results of the other reportable segments excluding these items. During 2010, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2010 presentation. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 45 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,689 $ 5,332 $ 6,563 $ 8,074 $ 5,649 Interest expense 1,257 1,997 2,720 3,676 2,341 Net interest income 3,432 3,335 3,843 4,398 3,308 Provision for loan losses 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 142 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 569 (206 ) 1,786 3,843 3,166 Non interest income 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Non interest expense 4,985 4,751 10,792 4,660 3,204 Income (loss) before income taxes from continuing operations (885 ) (1,202 ) (5,933 ) 2,039 1,992 Income tax expense (benefit) (346 ) (171 ) (348 ) 646 619 Income (loss) from continuing operations (539 ) (1,031 ) (5,585 ) 1,393 1,373 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (18 ) (217 ) (32 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (7 ) (75 ) (13 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.07 ) $ 1.97 $ 2.74 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.07 ) 1.95 2.71 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 2.70 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 2.67 Return on average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) (9.29 )% (14.92 )% (71.29 )% 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average common stockholders equity (5.47 ) (8.82 ) (28.81 ) 6.24 10.94 Return on average total assets, (non GAAP) (0.56 ) (0.88 ) (3.90 ) 0.90 1.41 BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Loans, net of unearned income $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Assets 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Deposits 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 101,228 Long term debt 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 8,643 Stockholders equity 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 20,701 Average balances Loans, net of unearned income 86,660 94,523 97,601 94,372 64,766 Assets 135,955 142,759 143,947 138,757 95,800 Deposits 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 67,466 Long term debt 15,547 18,588 13,510 9,698 6,856 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 20,036 12,369 SELECTED RATIOS Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 1.12 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 1.17 Efficiency Ratio (non GAAP) 71.83 72.08 64.97 58.83 56.44 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM NM Tier 1 capital 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 8.07 Total capital 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 11.54 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 $ 1.40 Stockholders common equity per share 10.62 11.97 19.53 28.58 28.36 Market value at year end 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 37.40 Market price range: High 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 39.15 Low 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 32.37 Total trading volume 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 301 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM 82.49 51.85 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 84,877 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,227 989 695 708 502 Diluted 1,227 989 695 713 507 (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) NM Not meaningful 46 Table of Contents 2010 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million or $0.62 per diluted common share in 2010. Significant drivers of 2010 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $200 million regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.90 percent in 2010, compared to 2.67 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 60 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 30 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in other low cost checking, savings and money market products. Although the net interest margin increased in 2010, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist, including those directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include a continuation of a low level of interest rates, higher costs of new debt issuances, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing to prudent levels of liquidity risk. The combination of these factors may even lead to a modest decline in margin in the near term from 3.00 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, management expects the net interest margin to be pressured in the near term due in part to the recent portfolio rebalancing activity to further the Companys capital and liquidity goals. However, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moves through the credit cycle as well as the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Non performing assets decreased $494 million between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010 to $3.9 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased to $2.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2009. The allowance for credit losses was $3.3 billion, or 3.93 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.52 percent of loans, at December 31, 2009. The stabilization in the level of the allowance reflects moderating credit trends. Non interest income decreased to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives, also drove the year over year decline. The decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income. The impact of Regulation E on service charges was less than anticipated; however, the Company expects increased pressure on fee based revenues in light of pending regulatory changes. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 47 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $5.0 billion in 2010 compared to $4.8 billion in 2009. The year over year increase was driven largely by a $200 million nondeductible regulatory charge related to Morgan Keegan, losses on early extinguishments of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and increased FDIC premiums. Higher salaries and employee benefits and credit related costs such as other real estate owned expense also contributed to the increase. These items were partially offset by lower other than temporary impairment on securities and a 2009 FDIC special assessment which did not repeat in 2010. See Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP Reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $7.8 billion, or 8.6 percent in 2010, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage, home equity, and indirect loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. Total deposits decreased $4.1 billion in 2010 to $94.6 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to maturities of time deposits. However, low cost customer deposits increased $4.7 billion, or 7 percent in 2010. Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent at December 31, 2010. Pro forma calculations indicate that the corresponding Basel III ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 percent and 11.35 percent, above the respective Basel III minimums of 7 percent and 8.5 percent. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) which was signed into law on July 21, 2010 provides some level of clarity regarding how the industry and Regions specific business will be affected moving forward. However, provisions in the Dodd Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule making and implementation, and it will be some time before the business implications are completely defined. Proposed rules regarding regulation of interchange income would have a significant negative impact on non interest revenues if adopted as drafted. In 2010, Regions collected $346 million in debit card income. Based on the current proposed rule, absent any mitigating actions, revenues from debit card income would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, assuming a cap of 12 cents per transaction. Non interest expenses (e.g., FDIC insurance premiums, compliance costs, and other regulatory fees) will also be negatively impacted by provisions included in the legislation. Additionally, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period beginning in 2013. Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges, including efficiency ratio, average tangible common stockholders equity, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, all of which are non GAAP. Merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including earnings per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges and return on average tangible common stockholders equity, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges provides a meaningful base for period to period and company to company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business, because management does not consider these charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out flash reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance 48 Table of Contents Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio, which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis. Management uses the efficiency ratio to monitor performance and believes this measure provides meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding certain adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the efficiency ratio. Regions believes that the exclusion of these adjustments provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), these regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies and procedures in place to identify and address expenses that qualify for non GAAP presentation, including authorization and system controls to ensure accurate period to period comparisons. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). 49 Table of Contents The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to net income (loss) available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 5) computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 6) computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of return on average assets (GAAP) to return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairments and regulatory charges (non GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity with and without merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP), and 9) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) from continuing operations (GAAP) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,585 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,611 ) 1,393 1,373 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (11 ) (142 ) (19 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 $ 1,354 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,611 ) $ 1,393 $ 1,373 Merger related charges, pre tax Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 66 Net occupancy expense 4 34 3 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 1 Other 58 153 19 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 89 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 60 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Regulatory charge 200 Income from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B $ (563 ) $ (1,261 ) $ 514 $ 1,612 $ 1,433 Weighted average diluted shares C 1,227 989 695 713 507 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/C $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.76 $ 2.67 Earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges diluted (non GAAP) B/C $ (0.46 ) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.74 $ 2.26 $ 2.83 50 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) EFFICIENCY RATIO Non interest expense (GAAP) $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 $ 4,660 $ 3,204 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) (89 ) Goodwill impairment (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (200 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) (16 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation costs (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) D $ 4,667 $ 4,559 $ 4,417 $ 4,296 $ 3,099 Net interest income, taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,464 $ 3,367 $ 3,880 $ 4,437 $ 3,469 Non interest income (GAAP) 3,531 3,755 3,073 2,856 2,030 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 (8 ) Leveraged lease termination gains (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) 3,033 2,958 2,918 2,865 2,022 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) E $ 6,497 $ 6,325 $ 6,798 $ 7,302 $ 5,491 Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) D/E 71.83 % 72.08 % 64.97 % 58.83 % 56.44 % RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS Average assets (GAAP) F $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 $ 138,757 $ 95,800 Return on average assets (GAAP) A/F 0.56 % 0.88 % 3.90 % 0.90 % 1.41 % Return on average assets, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/F 0.41 % 0.88 % 0.36 % 1.16 % 1.50 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY(1) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,036 $ 12,369 Average intangible assets (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) G $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,276 $ 6,104 Average stockholders equity, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) $ 17,444 $ 17,773 $ 19,939 $ 20,013 $ 12,215 Average intangible assets, excluding discontinued operations (GAAP) 6,003 6,122 11,949 12,130 6,450 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (255 ) (286 ) (321 ) (370 ) (185 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations (non GAAP) H $ 8,217 $ 8,450 $ 7,886 $ 8,253 $ 5,950 Return on average tangible common equity (non GAAP) A/G 9.29 % 14.92 % 71.29 % 15.12 % 22.18 % Return on average tangible common equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) B/H 6.85 % 14.92 % 6.52 % 19.53 % 24.08 % 51 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 (In millions, except per share data) TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS(1) Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 $ 20,701 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) I $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 $ 8,969 Ending total assets (GAAP) 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 143,369 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 12,133 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) (401 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) J $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 $ 131,637 End of period shares outstanding K 1,256 1,193 691 694 730 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) I/J 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % 6.81 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) I/K $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 $ 12.29 TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(2) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) L $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) M 94,966 103,330 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) L/M 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % (1) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. (2) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses 52 Table of Contents inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors are included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on all pools of loans with similar risk characteristics would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $180 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 10 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $55 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivatives (net). From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party financial investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. 53 Table of Contents A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2010 3rd Quarter2010 2nd Quarter2010 1st Quarter2010 4th Quarter2009 Discount Rate 15 % 16 % 16 % 16 % 18 % The decrease in discount rate from the fourth quarter 2009 test to the first quarter 2010 test was driven primarily by a reduction in the company specific risk premium, which was lowered as a result of updated forecasts that reduced uncertainty from the projected cash flows. 54 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions reduced the company specific component of its discount rate to reflect several positive factors that occurred during the period, as well as factors which reduced the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Specifically, the Company earned a profit and experienced improving credit metrics, including lower non performing assets and lower gross inflows of non performing loans than in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, Regions experienced lower levels of criticized loans, a leading indicator of loan losses (see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for further details, including a definition of criticized loans.) The Company also completed its three year strategic plan, which reflected improving credit trends and included additional clarity around future cash flows that were driven by a proposed rule issued by the Federal Reserve governing debit card income and the announcements in the fourth quarter of 2010 and January of 2011 of pending non distressed, orderly sales of financial institutions of comparable size and or footprint to Regions. Additionally, the Basel Committee finalized its capital framework, which provided additional clarity on future equity requirements that impact the projections of future cash flows. In the judgment of management, these factors outweighed the downgrades of Regions debt to below investment grade during the fourth quarter of 2010, as well as new rules which are expected to increase FDIC insurance premiums. In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 8 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions performed its goodwill impairment tests for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, which resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of approximately $4.7 billion and a goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion. Throughout 2009 and continuing into the first half of 2010, in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 8 Intangible Assets of the consolidated financial statements). The results of these calculations continued to indicate that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $11.9 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and others were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. The after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit. Since the second quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the value of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions; increasing FDIC premiums; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of unemployment in excess of 10 percent beyond 2012; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act; and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates beyond 2012. The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance reporting units: Impact to the Carrying Value of GoodwillBanking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 2% $ (a) + 3% (464 ) + 4% (939 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Multipliers (b) 53% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 2.7 Percentage Points $ (a) + 3.0 Percentage Points (172 ) + 4.0 Percentage Points (680 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 53 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.0x and 1.3x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.0x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. Impact to Step One ConclusionInvestment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance Reporting Units Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Insurance + 1% Pass Pass + 2% Pass Pass + 3% Fail Pass Change in Market Approach Multipliers (c) (d) 10% Pass Pass 20% Pass Pass 30% Pass Pass 40% Fail Pass (c) For Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust, represents the percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 1.6x and 2.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 1.6x multiplier for the public company method is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. (d) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 17.3x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income and is before the 30 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 8 for further details. 56 Table of Contents The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent another identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable; an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 6.1 percent ($16 million) and 12.7 percent ($34 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2010 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 5.6 percent ($15 million) and 10.7 percent ($28 million), respectively. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of other assets in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the net deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. 57 Table of Contents The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. In the event a dispute with a taxing authority arises, the Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to the tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million in 2010, compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion in 2009. The lower loss in 2010 was primarily reflective of moderation in credit quality within the Companys loan portfolio. However, the provision for loan losses remained elevated. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis increased 3 percent to $3.5 billion in 2010 from $3.4 billion in 2009 despite a decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $125.9 billion in 2009 to $119.3 billion in 2010. The increase in the net interest margin to 2.90 percent in 2010 from 2.67 percent in 2009 was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet size. Comparing 2010 to 2009, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 30 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 60 basis points, which was more than enough improvement in funding costs to offset the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 30 basis points to 2.58 percent in 2010 as compared to 2.28 percent in 2009. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates remained at historical low levels and fluctuated throughout the year. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 4.01 percent to a low of 2.41 percent, and for the year decreased 55 basis points, ending the year at 3.30 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans, often at lower rates of interest. This results in pressure on yields for portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Funds rate and the Prime Rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2010, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. Despite the lack of movement in short term rates compared to historic lows, deposit costs improved considerably from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.84 percent to 0.43 percent, and yet experienced an increase in average total balance from $21.4 billion in 2009 to $26.8 billion in 2010. The improvement in overall deposit cost was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $32.7 billion in 2009 to $26.2 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $20.7 billion in 2009 to $24.0 billion in 2010. 58 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis 2010 2009 2008 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Assets Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 694 $ 3 0.43 % $ 503 $ 3 0.60 % $ 868 $ 18 2.07 % Trading account assets 1,236 44 3.56 1,599 65 4.07 1,473 66 4.48 Securities: Taxable 23,854 873 3.66 20,221 966 4.78 16,897 828 4.90 Tax exempt 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 754 61 8.09 Loans held for sale 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 664 36 5.42 Loans, net of unearned income(1)(2) 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 97,601 5,562 5.70 Other interest earning assets 5,548 27 0.49 6,927 28 0.40 1,873 29 1.55 Total interest earning assets 119,317 4,721 3.96 125,888 5,364 4.26 120,130 6,600 5.49 Allowance for loan losses (3,187 ) (2,240 ) (1,413 ) Cash and due from banks 2,105 2,245 2,522 Other non earning assets 17,720 16,866 22,708 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 $ 3,744 4 0.11 Interest bearing transaction accounts 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 15,058 127 0.84 Money market accounts 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 18,269 326 1.78 Money market accounts foreign 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 2,828 47 1.66 Time deposits customer 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 28,301 1,099 3.88 Total customer deposits interest bearing 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 68,200 1,603 2.35 Time deposits non customer 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 2,083 75 3.60 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 2,074 46 2.22 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 4,157 121 2.91 Total interest bearing deposits 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 72,357 1,724 2.38 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,284 3 0.13 3,166 12 0.38 7,697 171 2.22 Other short term borrowings 963 7 0.73 5,229 42 0.80 8,704 198 2.27 Long term borrowings 15,547 492 3.16 18,588 666 3.58 13,510 627 4.64 Total interest bearing liabilities 91,301 1,257 1.38 100,938 1,997 1.98 102,268 2,720 2.66 Net interest spread 2.58 % 2.28 % 2.83 % Customer deposits non interest bearing 23,982 20,657 17,720 Other liabilities 3,228 3,391 4,020 Stockholders equity 17,444 17,773 19,939 $ 135,955 $ 142,759 $ 143,947 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis(3) $ 3,464 2.90 % $ 3,367 2.67 % $ 3,880 3.23 % 1. Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. 2. Interest income includes loan fees of $36 million, $30 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 3. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 4. Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.78 percent, 1.35 percent and 1.91 percent for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 59 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 2010 Compared to 2009Change Due to 2009 Compared to 2008Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basisin millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 1 $ (1 ) $ $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ (15 ) Trading account assets (14 ) (7 ) (21 ) 5 (6 ) (1 ) Securities: Taxable 156 (249 ) (93 ) 159 (21 ) 138 Tax exempt (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) (20 ) (12 ) (32 ) Loans held for sale (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) 37 (18 ) 19 Loans, net of unearned income (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) (171 ) (1,173 ) (1,344 ) Other interest earning assets (6 ) 5 (1 ) 33 (34 ) (1 ) Total interest earning assets (233 ) (410 ) (643 ) 37 (1,273 ) (1,236 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 (2 ) (1 ) 1 1 Interest bearing transaction accounts (8 ) (8 ) (6 ) (81 ) (87 ) Money market accounts 38 (103 ) (65 ) 49 (194 ) (145 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (18 ) (26 ) (44 ) Time deposits customer (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) 154 (208 ) (54 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) 179 (508 ) (329 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (46 ) (27 ) (73 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) (22 ) (23 ) (45 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (2 ) (2 ) (68 ) (50 ) (118 ) Total interest bearing deposits (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) 111 (558 ) (447 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (3 ) (6 ) (9 ) (66 ) (93 ) (159 ) Other short term borrowings (31 ) (4 ) (35 ) (60 ) (96 ) (156 ) Long term borrowings (102 ) (72 ) (174 ) 202 (163 ) 39 Total interest bearing liabilities (281 ) (459 ) (740 ) 187 (910 ) (723 ) Increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 48 $ 49 $ 97 $ (150 ) $ (363 ) $ (513 ) Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2010, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $515 million versus $526 million in 2009. The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically 60 Table of Contents generated larger spreads, for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2010, the spread on loans remained depressed due to lower interest rates and a higher level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2010 totaled $119.3 billion, a decrease of $6.6 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2010, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread was a continued elevated amount of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2010 and 75 percent in 2009. The categories, which are comprised of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 88 percent for both 2010 and 2009. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2010 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 77 percent in 2010 and 80 percent in 2009, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010, the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion and net charge offs were $2.8 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion and net charge offs of $2.3 billion in 2009. The decrease in the provision over charge offs reflects moderating credit quality. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income provides a detail of the components of non interest income. Non interest income totaled $3.5 billion in 2010 compared to $3.8 billion in 2009. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions in 2009. However, this decrease in revenue was offset by a reduction in the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in service charges income, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and securities gains. Offsetting these increases, mortgage income declined, resulting from market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) was 44 percent in 2010 and 2009. 61 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,174 $ 1,156 $ 1,148 Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets 1,059 989 1,027 Mortgage income 247 259 138 Trust department income 196 191 234 Securities gains (losses), net 394 69 92 Insurance commissions and fees 104 105 110 Leveraged lease termination gains 78 587 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 61 Visa related gains 80 63 Commercial credit fee income 76 70 68 Bank owned life insurance 88 74 78 Other miscellaneous income 115 114 115 $ 3,531 $ 3,755 $ 3,073 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was due to a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued into 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. Service charges will continue to be negatively impacted going forward by the policy changes and new regulations. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, will be impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would establish debit card interchange fee standards based upon one of two proposed alternatives. One alternative is an issuer specific standard with a safe harbor set at 7 cents per transaction. The other alternative is a stand alone cap set at 12 cents per transaction. Neither alternative makes a distinction between PIN or signature transactions and under both alternatives, the interchange fee will be much lower than 44 cents per transaction which is the average amount charged for all debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $346 million in 2010 and without mitigating actions could potentially be negatively impacted going forward. Based on the current proposed rule, Regions Banks revenues from interchange fees would likely be reduced to approximately one quarter of current levels, based on the 12 cent alternative described above. While the final regulations are not yet known, they may have an adverse affect on Regions business, financial condition or results of operations. Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income Regions primary source of brokerage, investment banking and capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegans revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking and capital markets, as well as trust department income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non interest income. As of December 31, 2010, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,200 financial advisors. Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in both 2010 and 2009. 62 Table of Contents Total brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenues increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010 from $989 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the investment banking and private client brokerage services divisions. Results for 2010 reflect strength in these divisions, which is due in part to strategic acquisitions that were made in specialized industries in recent years. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $80.0 billion and $77.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2010 compared to approximately $75.5 billion and $70.0 billion, respectively, at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management is primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Revenues from the private client division increased 15 percent to $476 million, and accounted for 36 percent of Morgan Keegans total revenue in 2010, compared to $415 million or 32 percent in 2009. Fixed income capital markets revenues decreased $38 million to $322 million, as compared to $360 million in 2009, although revenues remained higher than in previous years, driven by institutional customers demand for government, mortgage backed and municipal securities. Equity capital markets revenue was negatively impacted by the financial turmoil beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $55 million in 2010, compared to $59 million in 2009. Investment banking revenues increased $47 million to $151 million as the division had success within its specialized industries, such as oil and gas, healthcare and technology. Trust revenues increased 7 percent to $211 million in 2010, impacted by higher average asset valuations. The asset management division produced $15 million of revenue in 2010 compared to $39 million in 2009, pressured by a lower amount of fees from commissions. Morgan Keegans net income was negatively affected during 2010 by a $200 million regulatory charge related to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. This charge is nondeductible for income tax purposes. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for further information. See Note 22 Business Segment Information for details of net income contributed by Morgan Keegan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division which illustrates Morgan Keegans revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6 Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division Year Ended December 31 PrivateClient Fixed IncomeCapitalMarkets EquityCapitalMarkets InvestmentBanking RegionsMK Trust AssetManagement Interestand Other Total (Dollars in millions) 2010 Gross revenue $ 476 $ 322 $ 55 $ 151 $ 211 $ 15 $ 89 $ 1,319 Percent of gross revenue 36.1 % 24.4 % 4.2 % 11.4 % 16.0 % 1.1 % 6.8 % 2009 Gross revenue $ 415 $ 360 $ 59 $ 104 $ 197 $ 39 $ 108 $ 1,282 Percent of gross revenue 32.4 % 28.1 % 4.6 % 8.1 % 15.4 % 3.0 % 8.4 % 2008 Gross revenue $ 440 $ 266 $ 58 $ 158 $ 270 $ 31 $ 117 $ 1,340 Percent of gross revenue 32.8 % 19.9 % 4.3 % 11.8 % 20.2 % 2.3 % 8.7 % 63 Table of Contents Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million in 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in brokerage income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations, as illustrated in Table 7. Table 7 Categorization of Income Related to Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments 2010 2009 (In millions) Net interest income $ 3 $ 20 Brokerage income 4 4 Mortgage income 16 13 $ 23 $ 37 At December 31, 2010, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2009, the servicing portfolio totaled $39.7 billion, $23.3 billion of which was serviced for third parties. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans and recognized a loss of $15 million, including transaction costs. The Company did not sell any mortgage servicing rights in 2010 or 2009. Securities Gains (Losses), Net Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, as compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. In 2010, the company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. In 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds and through these measures sold $5.4 billion and incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. 64 Table of Contents In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the IRS negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2010 and 2009, resulting in gains of $78 million and $587 million, respectively. However, these gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million and $589 million, respectively, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2009, Regions completed an exchange of common shares for outstanding 6.625 percent Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). In connection with this exchange, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of junior subordinated debt issued to the Trust. The extinguishment resulted in an increase to non interest income of $61 million in 2009. For further details, see Note 14 Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) to the consolidated financial statements. Visa Related Gains In early 2008, Visa executed an initial public offering (IPO) of common stock and, in connection with the IPO, Regions ownership interest in Visa was converted into approximately 3.8 million shares of Class B common stock. In late 2008, Regions recognized a $63 million gain upon the redemption of these shares. In 2009, Regions sold its remaining Visa Class B common stock resulting in an $80 million gain. For further details, see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income increased 19 percent to $88 million in 2010, compared to $74 million in 2009. This increase is primarily due to changes in crediting rates related to the insurance policies. NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2010 included a $200 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge, increased $34 million, or 1 percent, to $4.8 billion in 2010. Non interest expense in 2008 included a $6.0 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and merger related charges totaling $201 million. Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge, merger related charges and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non interest expense. Note that merger related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and the text preceding it for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 65 Table of Contents Table 8 Non Interest Expense (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,356 Net occupancy expense 448 454 442 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 335 Professional and legal fees 303 309 214 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 97 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 922 $ 4,985 $ 4,751 $ 10,792 Regulatory Charge,Merger Related Charges andGoodwill Impairment 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ 134 Net occupancy expense 4 Furniture and equipment expense 5 Professional and legal fees 7 Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Marketing 13 Goodwill impairment 6,000 Other than temporary impairments Mortgage servicing rights impairment FDIC special assessment FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 200 Other miscellaneous expenses 38 $ 200 $ $ 6,201 As Adjusted (Non GAAP) 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 2,318 $ 2,269 $ 2,222 Net occupancy expense 448 454 438 Furniture and equipment expense 304 311 330 Professional and legal fees 303 309 207 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 107 120 134 Other real estate owned expense 209 175 103 Marketing 68 75 84 Goodwill impairment Other than temporary impairments 2 75 23 Mortgage servicing rights impairment 85 FDIC special assessment 64 FDIC premiums 220 163 15 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 66 Regulatory charge Other miscellaneous expenses 698 736 884 $ 4,785 $ 4,751 $ 4,591 66 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits increased $49 million, or 2 percent, in 2010. The year over year increase in salaries and employee benefits cost is due to higher pension and 401(k) expense as explained below. Although salaries and benefits expense increased, headcount was reduced approximately 2 percent in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. The Company temporarily suspended the pension service credit and the company match for eligible employee contributions in early 2009; however, the Company restored these benefits in January 2010. The temporary suspensions contributed to the increase in salaries and employee benefits in 2010 as compared to 2009. See Note 17 Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 1 percent, in 2010 primarily due to charges incurred in 2009 associated with the decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased $7 million to $304 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $6 million to $303 million in 2010, reflecting a reduction in the level of legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs in 2010. Legal expenses, however, remained elevated in 2010. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $107 million in 2010 compared to $120 million in 2009. 67 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. See Note 9 Foreclosed Properties to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Other Than Temporary Impairments (OTTI) OTTI decreased $73 million during 2010 to $2 million compared to $75 million in 2009. The 2009 charges are net of the non credit portion recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other than temporary impairment charges were minimal in 2010 due to the Companys efforts to de risk the portfolio and the resulting portfolio composition. Refer to Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. FDIC Premiums and Special Assessment FDIC premiums increased in 2010 by $57 million to $220 million. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC increased the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time making adjustments to the system that determines the rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule was raised on January 1, 2009. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios are the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. During early 2009, Regions utilized its remaining assessment credits, which had previously offset a substantial portion of premium cost. Regions qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, which was applied toward premiums in 2009, 2008 and 2007, thereby exhausting the credit. Under existing federal regulations, every FDIC insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of the designated reserve ratio. Regions incurred a $64 million special assessment in 2009 to help replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. Additionally, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay, by December 31, 2009, estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on the 2009 fourth quarter assessment rate. In February 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule (the New Assessment Rule) to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The New Assessment Rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the New Assessment Rule is expected to result in an increase in FDIC expense beginning in the second quarter of 2011. For a more detailed discussion of the FDIC insurance assessment methodology and proposed changes, see the Supervision and Regulation FDIC Insurance Assessments section of Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge On April 7, 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of securities regulators from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and South Carolina and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings 68 Table of Contents against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions believed that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Morgan Keegan recorded a non tax deductible $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Settlement negotiations and trial preparations are ongoing. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $38 million to $698 million in 2010. The decline in 2010 was driven by various categories, including those listed above. INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $346 million compared to a tax benefit of $171 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 39.1 percent and 14.2 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the nondeductible regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by one time items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases and expenses that are nondeductible for income tax purposes. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. At December 31, 2010, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.4 billion. Of this amount, $960 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore, do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $427 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $427 million, $92 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2023, and a valuation allowance of $14 million exists against these amounts. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 17 of the last 20 years with the prior three years results of operations being impacted by unprecedented credit losses. Absent the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008, which had no impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during that year leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, thus there is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. 69 Table of Contents Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in the AmSouth merger, can absorb up to approximately $1.0 billion of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2010, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the goodwill impairment test and are sourced from the Companys economic forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2010, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.40 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.35 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 7.85 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has identified 4 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of appreciated assets. As an example, during 2010, the Company reported net pre tax gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale. At December 31, 2010, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $283 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could absorb $108 million of deferred tax assets, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge during 2008 and the $200 million regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items were nondeductible for tax purposes, the cumulative pre tax loss position for 2008 through 2010 is $1.8 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $8.5 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to stabilize in future periods. During 2010, the provision for loan losses decreased $678 million to $2.9 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. Additionally, Regions reported positive net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2010, Regions reported total assets of $132.4 billion compared to $142.3 billion at the end of 2009, a decrease of approximately $10.0 billion or 7 percent. The balance sheet decline reflects a decrease in loans outstanding, primarily investor real estate balances, as well as a decrease in trading account assets. 70 Table of Contents Loans Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 73 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 75 percent of average interest earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2009. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. However, loan balances have declined between years as a result of decreased loan demand in response to economic pressures and managements efforts to reduce riskier loan portfolios, such as investor real estate. Table 9 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by loan type and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities. Table 9 Loan Portfolio 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,592 2,452 3,854 Other consumer 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 2006 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 $ 24,145 Commercial real estate(1) 23,107 19,646 Commercial real estate construction(1) 13,302 14,121 Residential first mortgage 16,960 15,584 Home equity 14,962 14,889 Indirect 3,938 4,038 Other consumer 2,203 2,128 $ 95,379 $ 94,551 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 71 Table of Contents Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFive Years Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial $ 6,441 $ 11,772 $ 4,327 $ 22,540 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 2,027 6,181 3,838 12,046 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 70 113 287 470 Total commercial 8,538 18,066 8,452 35,056 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 7,054 5,814 753 13,621 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,765 474 48 2,287 Total investor real estate 8,819 6,288 801 15,908 $ 17,357 $ 24,354 $ 9,253 $ 50,964 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 6,187 $ 18,167 Due after five years 4,405 4,848 $ 10,592 $ 23,015 Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2009 year end. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for discussion of risk characteristics in these categories and Regions management of those risks. Commercial The Commercial category includes commercial and industrial, representing loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2010, total commercial loan balances increased 2 percent, initially driven by growth experienced in certain specialty lending groups such as healthcare and energy in the Texas, Tennessee and Georgia markets. These industries have higher capital needs. Later in 2010, the growth continued more broadly across other categories and markets. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.8 billion from 2009 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Regions goal is to reduce the investor real estate portfolio segment below one hundred percent of Regions Banks risk based capital, which would have been approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2010. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. 72 Table of Contents Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $734 million decline to $14.9 billion in 2010, primarily due to a $965 million sale of residential first mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to improve the Companys capital and liquidity profile. Lower mortgage origination volume due to decreased net new refinance activity in 2010 as compared to 2009 also contributed to the decrease. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. Also, property values continued to decline, new and used home sales remained at historically low levels and credit markets contracted in general. See the Credit Risk section later in this report for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. The vast majority of Regions home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network. During 2010, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $14.2 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2010, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure. Charge offs during 2010 were elevated, but relatively stable as compared to 2009. The majority of the credit losses from this portfolio are related to loans where the collateral is a second lien located in Florida. A full discussion of these developments is included in the Credit Risk section later in this report. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, relatively unchanged from the prior year. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, loans held for sale also totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $783 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $411 million of student loans and $317 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage and student loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses totaled $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.2 billion or 3.52 percent at year end 2009. See Allowance for Credit Losses in the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 73 Table of Contents Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 18 percent of total assets at December 31, 2010 compared to 17 percent at December 31, 2009. In 2010, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, decreased $787 million, or 3 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 3.42 percent in 2010 and 4.22 percent in 2009. Table 11 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 11 Securities 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 96 $ 57 $ 901 Federal agency securities 21 51 1,705 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 30 70 757 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 21,857 22,700 12,353 Residential non agency 22 36 1,239 Commercial agency 112 21 757 Commercial non agency 100 Other debt securities 27 21 21 Equity securities 1,048 1,144 1,164 $ 23,313 $ 24,100 $ 18,897 From time to time, Regions sells securities classified as available for sale as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategy. As part of this process, in the first quarter of 2010, Regions sold approximately $1.4 billion of residential agency securities available for sale and recognized a gain of approximately $59 million. The proceeds were reinvested into newer issue residential agency securities with slightly longer durations. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2010, Regions repositioned its agency mortgage backed securities portfolio in order to mitigate prepayment risk associated with that portfolio. Regions sold approximately $8.2 billion of available for sale securities which primarily consisted of agency mortgage backed securities. A gain of approximately $333 million was recognized on the sale. Proceeds from the fourth quarter sales were reinvested in similar agency securities with lower coupons and longer durations. Regions continually analyzes relative value to the Company across fixed income asset classes. The current portfolio weighting to agency mortgage backed securities is not optimal over a longer horizon. Agency mortgage backed securities have an advantageous credit and liquidity profile, but also carry more prepayment risk than other types of securities. Regions expects to prudently balance these benefits and risks by expanding asset classes during 2011 and 2012, as appropriate opportunities arise. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2009, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $431 million, comprised of $495 million in gross unrealized gains and $64 million in gross unrealized losses. 74 Table of Contents The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2010, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. During 2009, Regions recognized, in earnings, approximately $75 million of securities impairments, related primarily to non agency residential mortgage backed securities, equity securities, and a single municipal issuer. See Note 3 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. In January 2011, Regions sold approximately $1.5 billion in securities, primarily agency mortgage backed securities, and recognized a net pre tax gain of approximately $52 million. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2010 was estimated to be 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 1.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2009. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 11 $ 80 $ 5 $ $ 96 Federal agency securities 3 7 7 4 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 3 19 30 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 172 1,412 20,273 21,857 Residential non agency 22 22 Commercial 54 58 112 Commercial non agency 35 15 50 100 Other debt securities 4 10 2 11 27 $ 20 $ 310 $ 1,498 $ 20,437 $ 22,265 Weighted average yield 6.65 % 4.06 % 3.56 % 3.40 % 3.42 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to $0 as of December 31, 2010. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 99 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2010. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. 75 Table of Contents Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than one percent of total securities at year end 2010. During 2009, due to the potential for downside price risk, the Company substantially eliminated its exposure in non agency commercial mortgage backed securities, non agency residential mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds. This was done in order to reduce credit risk within the portfolio. Regions increased its liquidity availability by reinvesting the proceeds in agency securities, including securities backed by GNMA. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $6.9 billion as compared to $8.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The year over year decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in Regions interest bearing deposits in other banks, primarily lower balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets decreased $1.9 billion to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. At the end of 2009, Regions increased holdings of U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities held for the purpose of hedging mortgage servicing rights (see Table 7 Impact of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Related Hedging Instruments for further discussion). The Company exited these positions in early 2010, driving the decrease in trading account assets. Table 13 Trading Account Assets provides a detail by type of security. Table 13 Trading Account Assets December 31 2010 2009 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 370 $ 2,447 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 355 264 Other securities 391 328 $ 1,116 $ 3,039 Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2010 decreased $99 million to $2.6 billion compared to year end 2009. This decrease primarily resulted from the depreciation on the premises and equipment. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.6 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Refer to Note 21 Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements, for the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. 76 Table of Contents Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2010 totaled $267 million compared to $247 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 6 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $385 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $503 million at December 31, 2009. The year over year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 8 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other Assets Other assets increased $1.5 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the increase. Net deferred income tax assets also contributed to the year over year increase, a portion of which resulted from sales of available for sale securities, which previously carried a deferred tax liability related to their unrealized gain. The increases were partially offset by amortization of prepaid FDIC premiums and reduced foreclosed properties balances. DEPOSITS Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 81 percent of average interest earning assets in 2010 and 75 percent of average interest earning assets in 2009. Table 14 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2010 decreased $4.1 billion, or 4 percent, compared to year end 2009. The overall decrease in deposits was primarily driven by decreases in customer time deposit accounts as a result of maturities. These decreases were partially offset by increases in domestic money market accounts. There has also been a shift from interest bearing transaction accounts to non interest bearing demand accounts during the year. Regions continues to deepen and retain existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition, new checking products and money market rate offers. Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 4 percent to $94.6 billion on an ending basis during 2010. Decreases in customer time deposit accounts were the main source of decline. Growth in domestic money market accounts offset the decline. In 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. However, in 2009 and continuing into 2010, due to 77 Table of Contents additional liquidity in the market, pricing rationale largely returned, enabling Regions to increase its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010. Table 14 Deposits 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 25,733 $ 23,204 $ 18,457 Savings accounts 4,668 4,073 3,663 Interest bearing transaction accounts 13,423 15,791 15,022 Money market accounts domestic 27,420 23,291 19,471 Money market accounts foreign 569 766 1,812 Low cost deposits 71,813 67,125 58,425 Time deposits 22,784 31,468 32,369 Customer deposits 94,597 98,593 90,794 Corporate Treasury deposits Time deposits 17 87 110 Total deposits $ 94,614 $ 98,680 $ 90,904 Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing deposits increased $2.5 billion to $25.7 billion, driven by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses and a mix shift from interest bearing transaction accounts which decreased 15 percent to $13.4 billion. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 27 percent of total deposits at year end 2010 as compared to 24 percent at year end 2009. Savings balances increased $595 million to $4.7 billion, generally reflecting growing savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances increased 18 percent in 2010 to $27.4 billion or 29 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2009 and 21 percent of total deposits in 2008. Money market accounts steadily increased throughout 2010. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $197 million, or 26 percent, to $569 million in 2010. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 28 percent in 2010 to $22.8 billion compared to $31.5 billion in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 24 percent of total deposits in 2010 compared to 32 percent in 2009. Consistent with 2009, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2010 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. 78 Table of Contents The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 1.04 percent in 2010 from 1.73 percent in 2009, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2010. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 15 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2010 2009 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,878 $ 3,521 Over 3 through 6 months 1,396 1,332 Over 6 through 12 months 1,898 2,442 Over 12 months 3,679 5,349 $ 8,851 $ 12,644 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2010 and 2009. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase used for funding purposes totaled $782 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $478 million at year end 2009. The level of Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. As another source of funding, the Company utilized short term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short term and long term borrowing needs and can also fluctuate between periods. Short term FHLB borrowings totaled $500 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The Company continues to utilize FHLB borrowings as a means to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer term maturities at preferable rates. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Regions borrowing capacity with the FHLB. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $118 million outstanding in the Federal Reserves Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $7 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, Regions could borrow a maximum of approximately $16.6 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion of loans pledged to the Federal Reserve Bank at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other short term borrowings totaled $95 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $0 at December 31, 2009. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks. The lines of credit provided for maximum borrowings of $640 million at December 31, 2010 and $585 million December 31, 2009. During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserves Term Auction Facility (TAF) program, which was designed to address pressures in short term funding markets, Regions continued to participate in TAF in the first half of 2009 but completely exited the program in July of 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for years 2010, 2009, and 2008. In past years, data for Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for both company funding purposes and customer related borrowings was presented in the aggregate. Prior year amounts in Table 16 have been revised to conform to current year presentation. Table 16 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 19 $ 30 $ 35 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 68 441 3,384 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 106 2,011 5,583 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.2 % 2.7 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 763 $ 448 $ 428 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 456 724 803 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 1,151 1,445 1,107 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.3 % 0.4 % 1.9 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.2 % 0.9 % 2.8 % Term Auction Facility: Balance at year end $ $ $ 10,000 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 3,003 5,925 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 10,000 13,000 Weighted average interest rate at year end % % 1.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) % 0.3 % 2.0 % CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. The balance totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Regions, through Morgan Keegan, maintains two types of liabilities for its brokerage customers that are classified as short term borrowings since Morgan Keegan pays its customers interest related to these liabilities. The brokerage customer position liability represents liquid funds in the customers brokerage accounts. The short sale liability represents trading obligations to deliver to customers securities at a predetermined date and price. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $324 million at December 31, 2010 as compared to $424 million at December 31, 2009. The short sale liability was $174 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $266 million at December 31, 2009. The balance of these liabilities fluctuates frequently based on customer activity. Customer collateral decreased $68 million to $10 million at December 31, 2010 from $78 million at December 31, 2009. This balance includes cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions by swap customers of Morgan Keegan. 80 Table of Contents LONG TERM BORROWINGS Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.3 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower cost funds. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had total long term FHLB advances of $3.7 billion, compared to $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009. During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2 billion of FHLB advances, realizing $108 million in pre tax losses on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the companys asset/liability management process. The remaining decrease between years was due to maturities. Long term FHLB structured advances have stated maturities during 2011, but are convertible quarterly at the option of the FHLB. The convertible feature provides that after a specified date in the future, the advances will remain at a fixed rate, or Regions will have the option to either pay off the advance or convert from a fixed rate to a variable rate based on the LIBOR index. The FHLB structured advances had a weighted average interest rate of 2.5% at December 31, 2010 and 3.1% at December 31, 2009. Other FHLB advances at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 had a weighted average interest rate of 1.0%, 3.4% and 3.8%, respectively, with maturities of one to nineteen years. FHLB borrowings are contingent upon the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. See Note 4 Loans to the consolidated financial statements for loans pledged to the FHLB at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, membership in the FHLB requires an institution to hold FHLB stock, and Regions held $419 million at December 31, 2010 and $473 million at December 31, 2009. Regions borrowing availability with the FHLB as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.3 billion, essentially unchanged from December 31, 2009. Regions subordinated notes consist of ten issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85% to 7.75%. All issuances of these notes are, by definition, subordinated and subject in right of payment of both principal and interest to the prior payment in full of all senior indebtedness of the Company, which is generally defined as all indebtedness and other obligations of the Company to its creditors, except subordinated indebtedness. Payment of the principal of the notes may be accelerated only in the case of certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency proceedings or reorganization of the Company. The subordinated notes described above qualify as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve guidelines. None of the subordinated notes are redeemable prior to maturity. In October 2008, the FDIC announced a new program the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the original rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDICs payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt would be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125 percent of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes Federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper and certain types of inter bank funding. Participants were charged a 50 100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date. Additionally, participants could elect to pay a fee of 37.5 basis points on their TLGP capacity for the right to issue non guaranteed debt during the program. This fee was non refundable and used to offset the guarantee fee for issuances until exhausted. In December 2008, Regions Bank completed an offering of $3.75 billion of qualifying senior bank notes covered by the TLGP. Payment of principal and interest on the notes will be guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States pursuant to the TLGP. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion of this offering remained outstanding and will mature in December 2011. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Regions had senior debt and bank notes totaling $3.8 billion, compared to $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009. In June 2010 and December 2010, approximately $250 million and $2 billion of senior notes, respectively, matured. During 2010, Regions issued $250 million (par value) of 4.875 percent senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75 percent senior notes due June 2015. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Regions had $843 million of junior subordinated notes (JSNs) bearing interest rates ranging from 6.625 percent to 8.875 percent. JSNs were issued to affiliated trusts, which contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities which Regions guaranteed. Other long term debt was $383 million at December 31, 2010 and $454 million at December 31, 2009, and had weighted average interest rates of 2.6% and 2.9%, respectively, and a weighted average maturity of 5.1 years and 5.3 years, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $55 million included in other long term debt in connection with a seller lessee transaction with continuing involvement compared to $59 million as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $200 million related to term repurchase agreements is also included in other long term debt at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring its outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. RATINGS During 2010, Regions experienced rating actions by Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS). The agencies downgraded obligations of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), as well as FDIC insurance costs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. 82 Table of Contents Table 17 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 17 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP* F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB * Not Prime As of December 31, 2009 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BBB Baa3 BBB+ AL Subordinated notes BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Junior subordinated notes BB Ba2 BBB BBBH Regions Bank Short term debt A 2 P 2 F2 R 1L Long term bank deposits BBB+ Baa1 A A Long term debt BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ A Subordinated debt BBB Baa2 BBB AL On November 1, 2010, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the ratings of 10 large U.S. regional banks, including Regions, after reducing its government support assumptions for these entities. The rationale for the downgrades reflects Moodys view that the likelihood of government support for these institutions is lower now that the U.S. Banking system has moved beyond the financial crisis. Shortly following the downgrade by Moodys, Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank received downgrades from each of the other ratings agencies, citing concerns regarding Regions credit quality, specifically commercial real estate loan exposures and unfavorable geographic concentrations, and the related implications for its capital, as the primary determinants of the ratings actions. At December 31, 2010, Moodys and S&Ps credit ratings for Regions were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Regions and Regions Bank remain on a credit watch with negative implications from Moodys. Additionally, many obligations of Regions and Regions Bank remain on negative outlook by the agencies referred to above. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 83 Table of Contents STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Stockholders equity decreased to $16.7 billion at year end 2010 versus $17.9 billion at year end 2009. In 2010, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $539 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $49 million for common stock and $187 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $390 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 18 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2010. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in the conversion and dividend settlement. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also exchanged approximately 33 million common shares for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2010, Regions had 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2010 or 2009. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.6 percent at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 compared to 6.22 percent at December 31, 2009 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The decrease between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2010, Regions decreased its annual dividend to $0.04 per common share, compared to $0.13 in 2009 and $0.96 in 2008. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. 84 Table of Contents BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets and off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, Regions has $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In connection with the SCAP, banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). Regions Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios were 7.85 percent and 12.40 percent as of December 31, 2010. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019 . The Companys pro forma Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, are approximately 7.62 and 11.35 percent, above the Basel III minimums of 7 percent for Tier 1 common and 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital. Regions also expects to meet the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio in its current form. However, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact on Regions is not completely known at this point. See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. 85 Table of Contents The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions capital ratios at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements. Table 18 Capital Ratios 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,734 $ 17,881 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 260 (130 ) Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5,706 ) (5,792 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets(1) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (27 ) (25 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 11,775 11,924 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,418 2,907 Adjusted allowance for loan losses(2) 1,213 1,316 Other 121 155 Tier 2 capital 3,752 4,378 Total capital $ 15,527 $ 16,302 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 94,966 $ 103,330 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 7.85 % 7.15 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 12.40 11.54 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.35 15.78 Leverage 9.30 8.90 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.64 12.56 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.09 10.03 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP)(3) 6.04 6.22 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $119 million and $128 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. (3) Beginning in 2010, tangible ratios are computed net of deferred taxes associated with intangible assets. Prior periods have been revised to conform with current presentation. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2010, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings 86 Table of Contents to the consolidated financial statements) and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 capital. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2010 was $893 million, which included $196 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $213 million as of December 31, 2010. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $61 million at December 31, 2010. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2010. Refer to Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices 87 Table of Contents or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile and the committee receives reports from the Company quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Historically, Regions balance sheet has consisted of a relatively rate sensitive deposit base that funds a predominantly floating rate commercial and consumer loan portfolio. This mix of Regions core business activities creates a naturally asset sensitive balance sheet, meaning that increases (decreases) in interest rates would likely have a positive (negative) cumulative impact on Regions net interest income. To manage the balance sheets interest rate risk, Regions maintains a portfolio of largely fixed rate discretionary investments, loans and derivatives. The market risk of these discretionary instruments attributable to variation in interest rates is fully incorporated into the simulation results in the same manner as all other balance sheet instruments. 88 Table of Contents The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 100 basis points scenario; a minus 200 basis point scenario is not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of plus and minus 100 basis points and plus 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2010, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending in December 2011. Regions continues to observe that the pace of economic recovery is at risk of being slow, which may result in a continuation of this period of low interest rates. To partially offset the adverse impact on net interest income and net interest margin attributable to an extended period of low interest rates, Regions entered into a series of receive fixed interest rate swaps. These instruments have a final maturity in December 2012. The table below summarizes Regions position, and the scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied. Table 19 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2010 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 168 +100 basis points 100 100 basis points (65 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 225 +100 basis points 146 100 basis points (133 ) Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). However, at December 31, 2010, Regions had no designations of hedges to mitigate price movements of securities. Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts 89 Table of Contents subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that 90 Table of Contents the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage backed securities increased during 2010 due to the favorable mortgage interest rate environment that existed for the majority of the year. However, tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and lingering uncertainty surrounding the economic environment restrained otherwise higher prepayment speeds. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK References below, and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, to Morgan Keegan are intended to include not only Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. but also certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries. It should not be assumed or infered that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2010, the notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $312 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. 91 Table of Contents Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a significant position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $54 million of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $161 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $805 thousand at December 31, 2010 and $1 million at December 31, 2009. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2010 was $2 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 20 Contractual Obligations summarizes Regions contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2010. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements). Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using diversified sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on 92 Table of Contents unsecured sources. However, Regions has continued to test those markets and has entered them only when opportunistic borrowing is available. Regions has chosen to focus on using short term secured sources of funding. Table 20 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits(1) $ 14,307 $ 7,682 $ 781 $ 31 $ 71,813 $ 94,614 Short term borrowings 3,937 3,937 Long term borrowings 6,004 2,597 1,538 3,051 13,190 Lease obligations 156 266 206 543 1,171 Purchase obligations 17 5 22 Benefit obligations(2) 13 26 29 82 150 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships(3) 348 348 Unrecognized tax benefits(4) 48 48 Visa litigation 24 24 Other 354 354 $ 24,782 $ 10,576 $ 2,554 $ 4,061 $ 71,885 $ 113,858 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax related interest and penalties of $10 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2010. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by GNMA, which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2010, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $17.4 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $20 million were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by a stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2009, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. 93 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program is a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guarantees all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided through January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Regions had $10.6 billion of FDIC uninsured deposits. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which primarily comprises the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At the end of 2010, Regions had over $4.8 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2010, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $16.6 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2010, FHLB Atlanta advances totaled $4.2 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions has additional collateral available and, accordingly, has additional capacity to borrow from the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $419 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2010. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. During the second quarter of 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2010. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further details. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. 94 Table of Contents COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Special Assets Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes 95 Table of Contents described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010; however, concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or currently delinquent. In the fourth quarter of 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. On December 17, 2010, the President approved significant tax provisions that are expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product, in 2011 and 2012. On November 3, 2010, the Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds. The combination of these two policy actions should support growth and dramatically lower the possibility of a second recession in 2011. These actions should also help mitigate further downside risk for asset prices, in particular real estate prices. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2010, commercial loans represented 42 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 19 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 21 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $35.1 billion at year end 2010 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually 96 Table of Contents secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.87 percent in 2010 compared to 1.28 percent in 2009. Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $15.9 billion at year end 2010 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans continued to trend upward, from 3.64 percent in 2009 to 5.66 percent in 2010 reflecting continued credit pressure. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction loans rose substantially, from 6.66 percent in 2009 to 14.3 percent in 2010. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non performing investor real estate loans also contributed to the year over year increase in net charge offs. The following chart presents detail of Regions $15.91 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in billions): Beginning in late 2007, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment came under significant pressure. Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. 97 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans at December 31: Table 21 Land, Single Family and Condominium 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 1,640 $ 2,979 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 16 Non accruing loans* 476 724 Single Family Loan balance $ 1,236 $ 2,083 Accruing loans 90 days past due 3 7 Non accruing loans* 290 545 Condominium Loan balance $ 308 $ 586 Accruing loans 90 days past due Non accruing loans* 92 184 * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2010, Regions has strategically reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, asset dispositions and charge offs. Condominium has been reduced to levels that management no longer considers to be significant exposures. In 2010, Regions executed a bulk sale of non performing assets which totaled $350 million. Non accrual portfolio loans secured predominantly by land represented approximately $200 million of the sale, with the remaining amount primarily comprised of foreclosed property and loans held for sale. Accordingly, this transaction contributed to the decrease in non accruing loans in the land table above. Other non bulk note sale activity in 2010 also contributed to decreases in all of these categories. Beginning in 2009, multi family and retail loans experienced increased pressure and contributed to increases in non accrual loans. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. Offsetting the risk of non collection is the geographic diversity of Regions exposure. The following table presents credit metrics and geographic distribution for Regions multi family and retail loans at December 31: Table 22 Multi family and Retail 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family(1) Loan balance $ 4,241 $ 5,049 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 239 113 (1) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to multi family loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Texas 20 percent, Florida 13 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Tennessee 7 percent, Louisiana 7 percent and North Carolina 6 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 98 Table of Contents 2010 2009 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Retail(2) Loan balance $ 3,099 $ 4,120 Accruing loans 90 days past due 4 Non accruing loans* 177 288 (2) The majority of the December 31, 2010 balance related to retail loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Florida 24 percent, Texas 12 percent, Georgia 10 percent, Alabama 9 percent, Tennessee 7 percent and North Carolina 7 percent. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4 percent, make up the remainder of the balance. * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail. While the multi family category experienced an increase in non accrual loans due to economic factors, this category was not a major contributor to the year over year change in total non accrual loans. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2010, losses on single family residences totaled 1.53 percent, 24 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values, foreclosures and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate. The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. At December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of residential first mortgage loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 4.9 percent, while approximately 10.6 percent of the outstanding balances of residential first mortgage loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates have risen to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Using the same methodology described in the above discussion of residential first mortgage loans, at December 31, 2010, the Company estimates that the number of home equity loans where the current LTV exceeded 100 percent was approximately 8.2 percent, while approximately 14.3 percent of the outstanding balances of home equity loans had a current LTV greater than 100 percent. If the home equity loan is in a second lien position, the first lien has also been considered in the analysis. If the first lien position is with another institution, the Company uses the first lien outstanding balance at the time the second lien was originated. 99 Table of Contents The table below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the years ended December 31: Table 23 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off %(1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % Year Ended December 31, 2009 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,170 $ 3,485 $ 5,655 $ 4,395 $ 5,331 $ 9,726 $ 6,565 $ 8,816 $ 15,381 Net Charge offs 59 250 309 30 76 106 89 326 415 Net Charge off %(1) 2.75 % 7.01 % 5.41 % 0.66 % 1.37 % 1.05 % 1.33 % 3.58 % 2.63 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Indirect and Other Consumer Lending Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class decreased $860 million or 35 percent in 2010, reflecting the 2008 suspension of new originations within the indirect auto lending business and the 2007 suspension of the marine and recreational vehicle lending business. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered the indirect auto lending business. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end and were relatively unchanged from prior years balance. Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2009 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, but stabilized in 2010. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; (3) the Companys policies relating to delinquent loans and charge offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; (8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; (9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and (10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. 100 Table of Contents Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Special Assets are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for credit losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses or noninterest expense, as applicable. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. However, the benefit assigned to credit support within the calculation of the allowance for credit losses is not material to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets. Higher levels of charge offs in 2010 as described below were also a factor in the allowance for credit losses. Net charge offs as a percentage of average loans were 3.22 percent and 2.38 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes. Investor real estate losses were the largest contributor, reflecting increased charge offs in the land, single family and retail components of investor real estate. Increased charge offs reflect the impact of opportunistic asset dispositions. Net charge offs on home equity rose to 2.80 percent in 2010 versus 2.63 percent in 2009. Losses from Florida based credits were again particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.2 billion of Regions total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2010. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.1 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 7.12 percent in 2010. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 5.38 percent of loans and lines versus 1.30 percent across the remainder of Regions footprint in 2010. Management expects charge offs to moderate going forward, but will likely remain elevated. Real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of charge offs. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the adequacy of the allowance for 101 Table of Contents credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. 102 Table of Contents Table 24 Allowance for Credit Losses 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 240 206 83 Equity 432 442 243 Indirect 34 68 56 Other consumer 83 83 66 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 2 4 2 Equity 18 27 17 Indirect 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 17 18 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 238 202 81 Equity 414 415 226 Indirect 19 47 41 Other consumer 67 66 48 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 3,185 3,114 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 74 74 58 Provision for unfunded credit commitments (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 71 74 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 3.22 2.38 1.59 Provision for loan losses 97.5 63.6 75.2 103 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 $ 784 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 72 Commercial real estate(1) 39 49 Construction 33 10 Residential first mortgage 20 2 Equity 54 38 Indirect 36 18 Other consumer 83 31 368 220 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 34 Commercial real estate(1) 9 10 Construction 2 3 Residential first mortgage 1 Equity 13 8 Indirect 16 8 Other consumer 26 17 97 80 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 38 Commercial real estate(1) 30 39 Construction 31 7 Residential first mortgage 19 2 Equity 41 30 Indirect 21 10 Other consumer 56 14 271 140 Allowance of purchased institutions at acquisition date 336 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) (14 ) Transfer to/from reserve for unfunded credit commitments(2) (52 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 142 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 1,321 1,056 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 52 Transfer from/to allowance for loan losses(2) 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 58 52 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 $ 1,108 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities. 104 Table of Contents Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 $ 94,551 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 $ 64,766 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % 1.12 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78 x 3.45 x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 0.22 Provision for loan losses 48.8 98.2 Table 25 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 295 9.4 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Other consumer 34 1.0 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % $ 325 30.8 % Commercial real estate(1) 411 31.1 307 29.1 Construction(1) 348 26.4 189 17.9 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 58 5.5 Home equity 95 7.2 95 9.0 Indirect 52 3.9 50 4.7 Other consumer 31 2.4 32 3.0 $ 1,321 100.0 % $ 1,056 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans deemed to be impaired include troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), plus commercial and investor real estate non accrual loans (excluding leases). Commercial and investor real estate impaired loans with outstanding balances equal to or greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually for impairment. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market prices. For consumer TDRs, 105 Table of Contents Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge off. In instances where management determines that a charge off is not appropriate, a specific reserve is established for the individual loan in question. This specific reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was approximately $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance allocated to TDRs totaled $224 million and $57 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses, see Note 5 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Regions continues to work to meet the individual needs of consumer borrowers to stem foreclosure through the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Regions designed the program to allow for customer tailored modifications with the goal of keeping customers in their homes and avoiding foreclosure where possible. Modification may be offered to any borrower experiencing financial hardship regardless of the borrowers payment status. Under the CAP, Regions may offer a short term deferral, a term extension, an interest rate reduction, a new loan product, or a combination of these options. Regions evaluates the success of the modification program (the recidivism rate). The recidivism rate is the 60 day and greater delinquency rate inclusive of non accruing loans for all TDRs which were restructured six months or prior to the reporting period. For CAP modifications, this rate is currently approximately 22 percent. For loans restructured under CAP, Regions expects to collect the original contractually due principal. The gross original contractual interest may be collectible, depending on the terms modified. The length of the CAP modifications ranges from temporary payment deferrals of three months to term extensions for the life of the loan. All such modifications are considered TDRs regardless of the term if there is a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Modified loans are subject to policies governing accrual/nonaccrual evaluation consistent with all other loans of the same product type. Consumer loans are subject to objective accrual/nonaccrual decisions. Under these policies, loans subject to CAP are charged down to estimated value and placed on nonaccrual status on or before the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Because the program was designed to evaluate potential CAP participants as early as possible in the lifecycle of the troubled loan, many of the modifications are finalized without the borrower ever reaching 180 days past due, and with the loans having never been placed on nonaccrual. Accordingly, given the positive impact of the restructuring on the likelihood of recovery of cash flows due under the modified terms, accrual status continues to be appropriate for these loans. None of the modified consumer loans listed in the TDR disclosures were collateral dependent at the time of modification. At December 31, 2010, approximately $153 million in residential first mortgage TDRs and approximately $9 million in home equity TDRs were in excess of 180 days past due and are considered collateral dependent. 106 Table of Contents Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. The following table summarizes TDRs for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Table 26 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 77 $ 5 $ 24 $ 2 Investor real estate 192 4 1 Residential first mortgage 813 97 1,291 29 Home equity 335 42 241 5 Other consumer 66 1 51 1 $ 1,483 $ 149 $ 1,608 $ 37 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial $ 105 $ 23 $ 17 $ 2 Investor real estate 198 20 75 16 Residential first mortgage 240 28 178 1 Home equity 30 4 17 1 573 75 287 20 $ 2,056 $ 224 $ 1,895 $ 57 Notes: 1. All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 2. Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $72 million and $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $63 million and $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $109 million and $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million and $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $7 million and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. NON PERFORMING ASSETS Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well secured and in the process of collection. When a commercial loan is placed on non accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on commercial loans placed on non accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses. When a consumer loan is placed on non accrual status, all uncollected interest accrued is reversed and charged to interest income. At December 31, 2010, non performing assets totaled $3.9 billion, or 4.70 percent of ending loans and other real estate , compared to $4.4 billion, or 4.83 percent of loans of loans and other real estate, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in non performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. 107 Table of Contents Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $454 million at December 31, 2010 and $607 million at December 31, 2009, reflecting dispositions and valuation charges due to continued stress on property values. Regions foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 27 Non Performing Assets presents information on non performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans. Management expects non performing assets to stabilize going forward, but will likely remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations and unemployment will impact the future level of non performing assets. Table 27 Non Performing Assets 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 285 180 125 Home equity 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 304 317 423 Total non performing loans* 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 454 607 243 Total non performing assets* $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 359 361 275 Home equity 198 241 214 Indirect 2 6 8 Other consumer 4 8 7 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 4.18 % 4.20 % 1.51 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income, plus foreclosed properties 4.70 % 4.83 % 1.76 % * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due 108 Table of Contents 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 $ 57 Commercial real estate(1) 263 128 Construction(1) 310 57 Residential first mortgage 72 54 Home equity 7 10 Total non performing loans 744 306 Foreclosed properties 120 73 Total non performing assets* $ 864 $ 379 Non performing loans* to loans, net of unearned income 0.78 % 0.32 % Non performing assets* excluding loans held for sale, to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Non performing assets* to loans, net of unearned income and foreclosed properties 0.90 % 0.40 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 $ 10 Commercial real estate(1) 12 26 Construction(1) 19 15 Residential first mortgage 155 44 Home equity 147 41 Indirect 6 3 Other consumer 6 5 $ 357 $ 144 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $585 million as of year end 2010, a decrease of $103 million from year end 2009 levels, reflecting improvement across all loan categories. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, Regions had approximately $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. 109 Table of Contents Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, and operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2009 WITH 2008 Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion or $1.27 per diluted common share in 2009. Significant drivers of 2009 results include an elevated provision for loan losses and pressured net interest income. Offsetting these items to some extent was Regions solid fee and mortgage income. Net loss from continuing operations in 2009 was $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted common share, compared to net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion, or $8.07 per diluted share in 2008. Regions incurred an $18 million pre tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after tax net loss of $11 million, for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2008 includes after tax merger charges of $125 million, or $0.18 per diluted share and a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge, or $8.63 per diluted share. Net interest income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.8 billion in 2008. The net interest margin (taxable equivalent basis) was 2.67 percent in 2009, compared to 3.23 percent during 2008. The decline in the net interest margin was impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions since late 2007. These factors include Regions asset sensitive balance sheet, which was impacted by an unfavorable decline in the general level and shape of the yield curve, higher spreads on new debt issuances, and rising non performing asset levels. Additionally, loan yields declined throughout the year, as variable rate loans fell in response to declines in the short term rates to which they are tied. Declining deposit rates partially offset these movements, but the decline was somewhat limited by the competitive demand for deposits within the industry, largely prompted by stressed economic conditions throughout the U.S. The following discussion of non interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non interest income totaled $3.8 billion in 2009, compared to $3.1 billion in 2008. The increase in non interest 110 Table of Contents income was primarily due to revenue generated from unwinding certain leveraged lease transactions during the year. However, this revenue was more than offset by the related income tax expense, resulting in an insignificant aggregate impact to net income. Excluding the leveraged lease terminations, results reflected an increase in mortgage income, primarily due to customers taking advantage of historically low mortgage rates, which drove higher mortgage originations and slightly higher service charges income. In addition, non interest income was aided by a gain on the early extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities. Offsetting the non interest income increases, brokerage, investment banking and capital markets revenue decreased in 2009 to $989 million compared to $1.0 billion in 2008 due to lower fees from investment banking and capital markets. In addition, trust income fees were negatively impacted by lower asset valuations due to the disarray in the markets during the year. Non interest income (excluding securities transactions and leveraged lease gains) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) equaled 44 percent in 2009 compared to 43 percent in 2008. The increase is primarily due to higher mortgage income and a decline in net interest income in 2009. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 1 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 from $1.1 billion in 2008. This modest increase was the result of an increase in interchange income due to higher volumes, partially offset by a decline in overdraft and insufficient funds revenues. Total revenues from overdrafts and insufficient funds charges were $605 million in 2009 and $622 million in 2008. In 2009, mortgage income increased $121 million, or 88 percent to $259 million. The increase was due to increased refinance activity as customers took advantage of historically low mortgage rates, resulting in $9.6 billion in mortgage originations during the year, compared to $5.4 billion in 2008. Market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives added $13 million to mortgage income in 2009. No such income was recorded in the previous year. Regions reported net gains of $69 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2009, compared to net gains of $92 million in 2008. During 2009, the company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal securities and through these measures incurred some losses on the sales. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. The proceeds from the sales in 2009 and 2008 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Total non interest expense for 2008 included a $6 billion non cash goodwill impairment charge and $201 million in merger related charges. Non interest expense was $4.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher securities impairments and FDIC insurance costs. Salaries and employee benefits decreased 4 percent to $2.3 billion in 2009 compared to $2.4 billion in 2008, Included in total salaries and employee benefits in 2008 are merger charges totaling $134 million. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the due to a 7 percent decline in headcount. At December 31, 2009, Regions had 28,509 employees compared to 30,784 at December 31, 2008. Net occupancy expense increased 3 percent to $454 million in 2009, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Also, included in net occupancy expense in 2008 were merger charges of $4 million, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $24 million to $311 million in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to lower depreciation; however 2009 branch consolidation charges of $7 million partially offset the decreases. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5 million in 2008. 111 Table of Contents Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $95 million to $309 million in 2009. Included in professional fees during 2008 were $7 million of merger related charges. The increase in 2009 is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan and credit related legal costs (such as legal fees associated with loan work outs). Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, grounds maintenance, etc. Foreclosed properties balances increased $364 million to $607 million in 2009 compared to $243 million in 2008 due to increasing numbers of foreclosures. OREO expense increased $72 million to $175 million in 2009 compared to $103 million in 2008, driven by the significant increase in OREO balances, coupled with property valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. Marketing expenses decreased $22 million during 2009 to $75 million compared to $97 million in 2008. The decrease was driven by $13 million of merger related charges in 2008. Mortgage servicing rights impairment was $85 million in 2008. There was no impairment related to mortgage servicing rights in 2009 as the Company elected the fair value method as of January 1, 2009. FDIC premiums, including a special assessment, increased $212 million to $227 million in 2009. The increases resulted from higher premium rates applied to a higher level of insured deposit balances. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove the increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $186 million to $736 million in 2009. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are merger charges totaling $38 million in 2008. The decline in 2009 was attributable to several factors. As discussed above, in January 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded in mortgage income. At that time, Regions was no longer required to adjust non interest expense for amortization of mortgage servicing rights. The impact of the amortization expense for 2008 was $75 million and there was no corresponding impact in 2009. Also, included in other non interest expense in 2008 was $49 million of write downs on investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds with no similar expense during 2009. Regions 2009 benefit for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $177 million to a tax benefit of $171 million compared to a tax benefit of $348 million in 2008. The decrease in the benefit is primarily related to the tax expenses on leveraged lease terminations in 2009. Net charge offs totaled $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009 compared to $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008. The increased loss rate reflected ongoing pressure in property valuations and continued strains in the economy as a whole. Non performing assets increased $2.7 billion between December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to $4.4 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Companys land, single family and condominium portfolios. Non performing assets held for sale totaled $317 million and $423 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2009 the provision for loan losses was $3.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.3 billion. This compares to a 112 Table of Contents provision for loan losses of $2.1 billion and net charge offs of $1.5 billion in 2008. The increase in the provision was primarily due to focused efforts to identify and address loan portfolio pressure, as well as continued deterioration in the land, single family, condominium and home equity portfolios. Income producing investor real estate, including multi family and retail, also contributed to the increased level of non performing loans, which significantly impacts the level of the provision. At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.8 billion or 1.87 percent at year end 2008. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2009 due to a recessionary economy, rising unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income producing properties. The increase in non performing assets, driven by land, single family and condominium loans and income producing investor real estate loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Additionally, unfavorable migration between risk rating categories drove higher allowance allocation rates for these loan portfolios. Table 28 Quarterly Results of Operations 2010 2009 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,136 $ 1,158 $ 1,180 $ 1,215 $ 1,288 $ 1,314 $ 1,351 $ 1,379 Total interest expense 259 290 324 384 438 469 520 570 Net interest income 877 868 856 831 850 845 831 809 Provision for loan losses 682 760 651 770 1,179 1,025 912 425 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 195 108 205 61 (329 ) (180 ) (81 ) 384 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 880 748 756 753 814 768 1,091 1,013 Securities gains (losses), net 333 2 59 (96 ) 4 108 53 Total non interest expense 1,266 1,163 1,326 1,230 1,219 1,243 1,231 1,058 Income (loss) before income taxes 142 (305 ) (365 ) (357 ) (830 ) (651 ) (113 ) 392 Income tax expense (benefit) 53 (150 ) (88 ) (161 ) (287 ) (274 ) 75 315 Net income (loss) $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) $ (543 ) $ (377 ) $ (188 ) $ 77 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) $ (606 ) $ (437 ) $ (244 ) $ 26 Earnings (loss) per share available to common shareholders: Basic $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.51 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.04 Diluted 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) (0.51 ) (0.37 ) (0.28 ) 0.04 Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.10 Market price: High 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 6.29 6.91 7.60 9.07 Low 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 4.61 3.30 3.66 2.35 Notes: 1. Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. 2. High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. 113 Table of Contents 
 
