Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (FICO) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICOs bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDICs risk related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of $9 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2011. Acquisitions The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5 percent or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Effective July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well capitalized and well managed effective July 2011. The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. 18 Table of Contents U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program Pursuant to the CPP, on November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in a private offering, (i) 3.5 million shares of the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, (Series A Preferred Stock) and (ii) a warrant (the Warrant) to purchase 48,253,677 shares of Regions common stock, at an exercise price of $10.88 per share, subject to certain anti dilution and other adjustments, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.5 billion in cash. The securities purchase agreement, dated November 14, 2008, pursuant to which the securities issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP were sold, grants the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrant and the common stock of Regions to be issued under the Warrant certain registration rights in order to facilitate resale, and subjects Regions to certain of the executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Depositor Preference Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. Incentive Compensation Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In January 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. The comment period ended on February 18, 2010. As of February 2012, a final rule has not been adopted. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the Incentive Compensation Guidance) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organizations incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk taking beyond the organizations ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organizations board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organizations supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organizations safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. In March 2011, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking agencies requested comments on a notice of proposed rulemaking designed to implement provisions of the Dodd Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at a covered institution, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more of assets, such as Regions and Regions Bank. The proposed rule (i) prohibits incentive based compensation arrangements that encourage executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders to expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation (based on the standards for excessive compensation adopted pursuant to the FDIA) and 19 Table of Contents (ii) prohibits incentive based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders that could lead to a material financial loss for the institution. The proposed rule requires covered institutions to establish policies and procedures for monitoring and evaluating their compensation practices. Institutions with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, are subject to additional restrictions on compensation arrangements for their executive officers and any other persons indentified by the institutions board of directors as having the ability to expose the institution to substantial losses. The comment period ended on May 31, 2011. These regulations may become effective before the end of 2012. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives. The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop. It cannot be determined at this time whether a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will adversely affect the ability of Regions and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees. Financial Privacy The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non public information about consumers to non affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. Community Reinvestment Act Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institutions discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institutions record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The regulatory agencys assessment of the institutions record is made available to the public. The assessment also is part of the Federal Reserves consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. Regions Bank received a satisfactory CRA rating in its most recent examination. USA PATRIOT Act A focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the USA PATRIOT Act) broadened the application of anti money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of 20 Table of Contents the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Acts requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions banking, broker dealer and insurance subsidiaries have augmented their systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the OFAC rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The OFAC administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers Regions operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of Regions insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations. Regulation of Residential Mortgage Loan Originators On July 28, 2010, the Federal Reserve and other Federal bank regulatory authorities adopted a final rule on the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (S.A.F.E. Act). Under the S.A.F.E. Act, residential mortgage loan originators employed by banks, such as Regions Bank, must register with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry, obtain a unique identifier from the registry, and maintain their registration. As of July 30, 2011, any residential mortgage loan originator who fails to satisfy these requirements will not be permitted to originate residential mortgage loans. Regulation of Morgan Keegan Morgan Keegan is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA, NYSE and other SROs. Such regulations cover a broad range of subject matter. Rules and regulations for registered broker dealers cover such issues as: capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of 21 Table of Contents directors, officers and employees; record keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. Rules and regulations for registered investment advisers include limitations on the ability of investment advisers to charge performance based or non refundable fees to clients, record keeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on principal transactions between an adviser or its affiliates and advisory clients, and anti fraud standards. Morgan Keegan is subject to the net capital requirements set forth in Rule 15c3 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The net capital requirements measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker dealer by specifying a minimum level of net capital that a broker dealer must maintain, and by requiring that a significant portion of its assets be kept liquid. If Morgan Keegan failed to maintain its minimum required net capital, it would be required to cease executing customer transactions until it came back into compliance. This could also result in Morgan Keegan losing its FINRA membership, its registration with the SEC or require a complete liquidation. The SECs risk assessment rules also apply to Morgan Keegan as a registered broker dealer. These rules require broker dealers to maintain and preserve records and certain information, describe risk management policies and procedures, and report on the financial condition of affiliates whose financial and securities activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial and operational condition of the broker dealer. Certain material associated persons of Morgan Keegan, as defined in the risk assessment rules, may also be subject to SEC regulation. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker dealers and investment advisers. Morgan Keegan is registered as a broker dealer with every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Morgan Keegan is registered as an investment adviser in 47 states and the District of Columbia. Violations of federal, state and SRO rules or regulations may result in the revocation of broker dealer or investment adviser licenses, imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion of officers and employees from the securities business firm. The Dodd Frank Act contains several provisions which may affect Morgan Keegans business, including registration of municipal advisors, increased regulation of investment advisors and conducting a study regarding the fiduciary duties of investment advisors. Morgan Keegans business may be adversely affected by new rules and regulations issued by the SEC or SROs, the implementation of provisions of the Dodd Frank Act applicable to Morgan Keegan, and any changes in the enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect its securities business. Competition All aspects of Regions business are highly competitive. Regions subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, investment companies, mutual funds, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by Regions subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although Regions position varies in different markets, Regions believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. 22 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2011, Regions and its subsidiaries had 26,813 employees. Available Information Regions maintains a website at www.regions.com. Regions makes available on its website free of charge its annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports which are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on Regions website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are Regions (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Expenditures Policy, and (v) the charters of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets since 2008 have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under employment, have adversely affected the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write downs, initially of mortgage backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including financial institutions. Although the economic slowdown that the United States experienced has begun to reverse and the markets have generally improved, business activities across a wide range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to fluctuations in interest rates; and An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge offs, provisions for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. 23 Table of Contents Overall, during the past four years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business. Although the general business environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that it will continue to improve. Additionally, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values and rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly than other economic sectors. For example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include entities active in the real estate and financial services industries. Furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Concerns about the European Unions sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Such risks could indirectly affect the Company by affecting its hedging or other counterparties, as well as the Companys customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the euro or companies in the Companys markets with European businesses or affiliates. Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated or difficult credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a majority of our liabilities on average during 2011 were checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days notice, while by comparison, a substantial majority of our assets were loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, and adverse changes in the economic conditions in this region can adversely affect our performance and credit quality. Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern United States, particularly in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. As a result, local economic conditions in the Southeastern United States can significantly affect the demand for the products offered by Regions Bank (including real estate, commercial and construction loans), the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Since 2008, the national real estate market experienced a significant decline in value, and the value of real estate in the Southeastern United States in particular declined significantly more than real estate values in the United States as a whole. This decline has had an adverse impact on some of our borrowers and on the value of the collateral securing many of our loans. This decline may continue to affect borrowers and collateral values, which could adversely affect our currently performing loans, leading to future delinquencies or defaults and increases in our provision for loan losses. Further or continued adverse changes in these economic conditions may negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Hurricanes and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes, or in areas of the Southeastern United States that are susceptible to tornadoes and other severe weather events. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption that a catastrophic hurricane could produce to the markets that we serve. Further, a hurricane or severe tornado in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely affect the value of any collateral held by us. Man made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as the 2010 Gulf oil spill, could have similar effects. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The severity and impact of future hurricanes, severe tornadoes, droughts and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes, severe tornadoes, droughts and other weather related events, as well as man made disasters, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Continued weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2011, consumer residential real estate loans represented approximately 34.5 percent of our total loan portfolio. This portion of our loan portfolio has been under pressure for over four years as recent disruptions in the financial markets and the deterioration in housing markets and general economic conditions have caused a decline in home values, real estate market demand and the credit quality of borrowers. The effects of the continuing mortgage market challenges, combined with decreases in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further declines in home values. Declines in home values would adversely affect the value of collateral securing the residential real estate that we hold, as well as the volume of loan originations and the amount we realize on sale of real estate loans. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge offs in future periods, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Continued weakness in the commercial real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. Facing continuing pressure from reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents, the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector also remain weak. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 13.8 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. The properties securing income producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrowers ability to repay the loan is instead dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrowers successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrowers business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may remain at elevated levels in 2012. High vacancy rates could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration in value of some of our loans. Any such deterioration could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay the amounts due under their loans. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. If we experience greater credit losses in our loan portfolios than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 25 Table of Contents We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. Our management periodically determines the allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non accrual loans. Increases in this allowance will result in an expense for the period reducing our reported net income. If, as a result of general economic conditions, a decrease in asset quality or growth in the loan portfolio, our management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses which will reduce our net income, and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Although our management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate to absorb probable and reasonable estimable losses in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. In particular, if a hurricane or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our principal markets of if economic conditions in those markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur. Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses will reduce our net income and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to non accrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks associated with home equity products where we are in a second lien position could adversely affect our performance. Home equity products, particularly those where we are in a second lien position, and particularly those in certain geographic areas, may carry a higher risk of non collection than other loans. Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values at the time of origination directly affect the amount of credit extended, and, in addition, past and future changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. Second lien position lending carries higher credit risk because any decrease in real estate pricing may result in the value of the collateral being insufficient to cover the second lien after the first lien position has been satisfied. We have realized higher levels of charge offs on second lien positions in the state of Florida, where real estate valuations have been depressed over the past several years. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $7.1 billion of our home equity lines and loans were in a second lien position (approximately $2.8 billion in Florida). We are unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When our second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, we do not and cannot continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. When the first lien is held by a third party, we can obtain an indication that a first lien is in default through information reported to credit bureaus. However, because borrowers may have more than one mortgage reported on the credit report and there is not a corresponding property address associated with reported mortgages, we are unable to associate a specific first lien with our junior lien. The only communication we receive directly from the first lien holder for our junior lien is notification at the time of foreclosure sale. As of December 31, 2011, none of our home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. 26 Table of Contents Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, enabling them to be more aggressive than us in competing for loans and deposits. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. We expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, such as the recent repeal of all federal prohibitions on the payment by depository institutions of interest on demand deposit accounts and the recent repeal of all prohibitions on interstate branching by depository institutions. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to effectively market our products and services and to retain or compete for new business may be adversely affected. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may also be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our business. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received on interest earning assets (primarily loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest earning assets, the average balance of interest bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System (the FOMC) and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short term interest rates, the level of which is driven primarily by the FOMCs actions. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by longer term interest rates, which are set by the market through benchmark interest rates such as the London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) or, at times the FOMCs actions, and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace at which such movements occur. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. If the interest rates on our interest bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest earning assets, our net interest income may decline and, with it, a decline in our earnings may occur. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest bearing liabilities. In particular, short term interest rates are currently very low by historical standards, with many benchmark rates, such as the federal funds rate and the one and three month LIBOR near zero. These low rates have reduced our cost of funding which has caused our net interest margin to increase. Our current one year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate or gradual increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions twelve month net interest income. Alternatively, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve month net interest income. An increasing interest rate environment would also increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers. Such increases may adversely affect those borrowers ability to pay as contractually obligated and could result in additional delinquencies or charge offs. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result. 27 Table of Contents For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the Net Interest Income and Margin, Market Risk Interest Rate Risk and Securities sections of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our status as a non investment grade issuer and any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs, place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers, or contribute to ineffective liquidity management. The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past three years, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions and Regions Banks credit ratings and many issued negative outlooks. Negative watch, negative outlook or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. Recently, however, three major rating agencies have revised their outlooks of Regions upward from negative to stable. Citing improvements in loan loss performance and profitability, Standard & Poors revised its outlook of Regions to stable in August 2011. Fitch Ratings followed suit in November 2011, noting that Regions overall risk profile had improved. In February 2012, Moodys Investor Services also changed its outlook from negative to stable citing that Regions had decreased its risk concentrations and is showing signs of stability in its asset quality. However, our rating from Dominion Bond Rating Service remains on negative outlook. Currently, Regions Senior ratings are Ba3, BB+, BBB , and BBB by Moodys Investor Services, Standard & Poors, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service, respectively. Regions ratings with Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors and Regions Banks ratings with Moodys Investor Services are currently below investment grade. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future. Additionally, ratings agencies may also make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices which may affect our credit ratings. In particular, Standard & Poors recently issued new credit rating criteria for regional banks based on general economic risks, risks associated with the banking industry, the banks strengths and weaknesses, and the likelihood that the bank will need governmental or outside financial support. While Standard & Poors has not downgraded Regions and Regions Banks credit ratings at this time, a few of our peer banks have experienced credit downgrades as a result of the new rating criteria. In the future, these new ratings guidelines may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. Downgrades of Regions credit ratings have negative consequences that can impact our ability to access the debt and capital markets, as well as reduce our profitability through increased costs on future debt issuances. Specifically, when Regions was downgraded below investment grade status, we became unable to reliably access the short term unsecured funding markets, which has caused us to hold more cash and liquid investments to meet our on going cash needs. Such actions have reduced our profitability as these liquid investments earn a lower return than other assets, such as loans. Regions liquidity policy requires that we maintain a minimum cash level sufficient to cover debt service, maturities and operating cash requirements for two years for the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The conservative nature of this policy helps protect us against the costs of unexpected adverse funding environments. Future issuances of debt could cost Regions more in interest costs were such debt to be issued at our current debt rating. Future downgrades would further increase the interest costs associated with potential future borrowings, the cost of which cannot be estimated due to the uncertainty of future issuances in terms of amount and priority. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, at the time Regions was downgraded to below investment grade, certain counterparty contracts were required to be renegotiated, resulting in additional collateral postings of approximately $200 million. Refer to Note 20, Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, Contingent Features to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fair value of contracts subject to contingent credit features and the collateral postings associated with such contracts. Future downgrades could require Regions to post additional collateral. While the exact amount of additional collateral is unknown, it is reasonable to conclude that Regions may be required to post approximately an additional $200 million related to existing contracts with contingent credit features. Additionally, if due to future downgrades, we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. Regions believes that this market risk exposure would be immaterial to its consolidated financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion of goodwill and $449 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If the fair value of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, as a result of the potential sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions is evaluating the organization of its reporting units. Reorganization of its reporting units in the future would result in a reallocation of goodwill across Regions business, at which time Regions would be required to test its goodwill in these new reporting units for impairment and could result in a write down of our goodwill. A goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $1.3 billion in net deferred tax assets, of which $432 million was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our regulatory capital. The inability to include deferred tax assets in our regulatory capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination, we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax to prior years taxable income, reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2011 (except for $32 million related to state deferred tax assets for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any European sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, defaults by, or even mere speculation about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We are unable to make assurances that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities. On November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. The federal regulators have not provided any formal guidance on the conditions to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and appear to address these questions on a case by case basis. Our expectation is that we would be required to generate or raise additional capital prior to exiting TARP. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on market conditions at the time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative inferences regarding our strength as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP. Any such negative perceptions and the limitations on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Because we remain subject to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have exited the CPP to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 30 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. We may experience an outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise. This outflow of deposits could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties. 31 Table of Contents Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Regions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Regions or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Regions or our customers or other third parties business operations. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and 32 Table of Contents exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, or failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must 33 Table of Contents select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; fair value measurements; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Framework in which Our Business Operates We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self regulatory agencies regarding our and their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed lender liability. Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect 34 Table of Contents depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control of bank holding companies and state chartered banks, maintenance of adequate capital by bank holding companies and state chartered banks, and general business operations and financial condition of Regions and Regions Bank (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Additionally, all our non bank subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, and certain of our other subsidiaries, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators. As a result, we are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section and associated Capital Ratios table of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including: Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, and numerous other requirements on systemically significant institutions, including all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions); Establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms; Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to systemically significant institutions to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates; Establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under TARP, such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act became effective on July 21, 2011, the one year anniversary of its enactment. However, a number of these other provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in some respects, the ultimate impact of the Dodd Frank Act and its effect on Regions and the U.S. financial system generally may not be known for some time. 35 Table of Contents The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act and any future rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past four years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009, and required banks to prepay three years worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC increased the DIFs target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd Frank Acts elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIFs reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, in February 2011, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. The FDIC also adopted a revised risk based assessment calculation in February 2011. In January 2010, the FDIC proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institutions employee compensation programs. Comments were due on February 18, 2010, but as of February 2012, no final rule has been adopted. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increases may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products our peer institutions may offer in response to this repeal. We anticipate that our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new clients or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum 36 Table of Contents capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated as part of the Basel Committee III process and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses conducted on Regions may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review implemented pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and Regions will conduct ongoing stress analyses of Regions in connection with evaluating Regions capital plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will release publicly a summary containing bank holding company specific information and results of the 2012 stress analyses it conducts in connection with the CCAR. Under the Proposed SIFI Rules discussed under Regulatory Reforms in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Federal Reserve will also conduct an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in adverse economic and financial conditions. This stress analysis will use three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to conduct our own semi annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis would be released publicly and contain bank holding company specific information and results. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to disclose publicly the results of our semi annual stress analyses. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting or requiring revisions to our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on 37 Table of Contents the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved its final rule on debit interchange fees. The final rule caps the maximum debit interchange fee at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points (multiplied by the amount of the transaction) to reflect a portion of fraud losses. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the final rule are applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank. The debit interchange fee provision took effect on October 1, 2011. The Federal Reserve estimates that covered issuers, such as Regions Bank, may experience a decline in debit interchange fee revenue by more than 40 percent under the final rule. In 2011, Regions Bank collected $335 million in debit card income. We estimate that our debit card income will likely be reduced by approximately $180 million annually under the final rule before mitigation efforts. In addition to the final rule on debit interchange fees, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that provides an upward adjustment of a maximum of 1 cent to an issuers debit card interchange fee if the issuer establishes and implements procedures that meet specified fraud prevention standards set forth under the interim final rule. In order to receive the adjustment, qualifying issuers must certify their eligibility to the payment card networks in which they participate. The fraud prevention adjustment provision took effect on October 1, 2011, but may be revised by the Federal Reserve at a later date based on comments received through September 30, 2011. Regions is currently eligible for this adjustment. Since this rule is not yet final, the effects of this provision in its final form on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. The final rule also prohibits issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. This network exclusivity provision is applicable to all issuers, even those exempt from the debit interchange fees. Issuers will be subject to the network exclusivity rule beginning on April 1, 2012. The Federal Reserve predicts that this network exclusivity provision may result in higher costs for some issuers and may place downward pressure on interchange fees because merchants may opt to route transactions over less expensive networks. The effects of this rule on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. Risks Related to the Sale of Morgan Keegan The sale of Morgan Keegan may have an adverse impact on our business. Pursuant to a stock purchase agreement entered into on January 11, 2012 (the Stock Purchase Agreement), Regions agreed to sell Morgan Keegan and certain related companies to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for 38 Table of Contents approximately $930 million. The transaction is expected to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to customary conditions including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. We expect to receive a pre closing dividend of $250 million from Morgan Keegan, bringing our total proceeds from the sale to approximately $1.18 billion, subject to adjustment. The cash purchase price calculated under the Stock Purchase Agreement is subject to adjustment based on (1) the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan as of the closing of the transaction and (2) retention of Morgan Keegan employees through the date 90 days after closing of the transaction (the Measurement Date). If a significant number of Morgan Keegan employees leave prior to the Measurement Date or if the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan declines, the purchase price for Morgan Keegan that we receive under the Stock Purchase Agreement may be decreased. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. 39 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, 40 Table of Contents or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2011, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,726 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from 90 full service offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2011, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Banks branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2012, there were 73,015 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2011, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 November 1 30, 2011 23,072,300 December 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 Total 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 43 Table of Contents Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 44 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 Regions $ 100.00 $ 66.36 $ 23.90 $ 16.39 $ 21.81 $ 13.51 S&P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76 S&P Banks Index 100.00 77.32 48.97 45.67 55.31 49.79 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our status as a non investment grade issuer and any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs, place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers, or contribute to ineffective liquidity management. The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Over the past three years, all of the major ratings agencies downgraded Regions and Regions Banks credit ratings and many issued negative outlooks. Negative watch, negative outlook or other similar terms mean that a future downgrade is possible. Recently, however, three major rating agencies have revised their outlooks of Regions upward from negative to stable. Citing improvements in loan loss performance and profitability, Standard & Poors revised its outlook of Regions to stable in August 2011. Fitch Ratings followed suit in November 2011, noting that Regions overall risk profile had improved. In February 2012, Moodys Investor Services also changed its outlook from negative to stable citing that Regions had decreased its risk concentrations and is showing signs of stability in its asset quality. However, our rating from Dominion Bond Rating Service remains on negative outlook. Currently, Regions Senior ratings are Ba3, BB+, BBB , and BBB by Moodys Investor Services, Standard & Poors, Fitch Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Service, respectively. Regions ratings with Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors and Regions Banks ratings with Moodys Investor Services are currently below investment grade. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future. Additionally, ratings agencies may also make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices which may affect our credit ratings. In particular, Standard & Poors recently issued new credit rating criteria for regional banks based on general economic risks, risks associated with the banking industry, the banks strengths and weaknesses, and the likelihood that the bank will need governmental or outside financial support. While Standard & Poors has not downgraded Regions and Regions Banks credit ratings at this time, a few of our peer banks have experienced credit downgrades as a result of the new rating criteria. In the future, these new ratings guidelines may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. Downgrades of Regions credit ratings have negative consequences that can impact our ability to access the debt and capital markets, as well as reduce our profitability through increased costs on future debt issuances. Specifically, when Regions was downgraded below investment grade status, we became unable to reliably access the short term unsecured funding markets, which has caused us to hold more cash and liquid investments to meet our on going cash needs. Such actions have reduced our profitability as these liquid investments earn a lower return than other assets, such as loans. Regions liquidity policy requires that we maintain a minimum cash level sufficient to cover debt service, maturities and operating cash requirements for two years for the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The conservative nature of this policy helps protect us against the costs of unexpected adverse funding environments. Future issuances of debt could cost Regions more in interest costs were such debt to be issued at our current debt rating. Future downgrades would further increase the interest costs associated with potential future borrowings, the cost of which cannot be estimated due to the uncertainty of future issuances in terms of amount and priority. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, at the time Regions was downgraded to below investment grade, certain counterparty contracts were required to be renegotiated, resulting in additional collateral postings of approximately $200 million. Refer to Note 20, Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, Contingent Features to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fair value of contracts subject to contingent credit features and the collateral postings associated with such contracts. Future downgrades could require Regions to post additional collateral. While the exact amount of additional collateral is unknown, it is reasonable to conclude that Regions may be required to post approximately an additional $200 million related to existing contracts with contingent credit features. Additionally, if due to future downgrades, we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. Regions believes that this market risk exposure would be immaterial to its consolidated financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion of goodwill and $449 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If the fair value of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our Banking/Treasury reporting unit, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, as a result of the potential sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions is evaluating the organization of its reporting units. Reorganization of its reporting units in the future would result in a reallocation of goodwill across Regions business, at which time Regions would be required to test its goodwill in these new reporting units for impairment and could result in a write down of our goodwill. A goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $1.3 billion in net deferred tax assets, of which $432 million was disallowed when calculating regulatory capital. Applicable banking regulations permit us to include these deferred tax assets, up to a maximum amount, when calculating Regions regulatory capital to the extent these assets will be realized based on future projected earnings within one year of the report date. The ability to realize these deferred tax assets during any year also includes the ability to apply these assets to offset any taxable income during the two previous years. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include additional amounts related to our deferred tax assets as part of our regulatory capital. The inability to include deferred tax assets in our regulatory capital could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination, we consider all positive and negative evidence available including the impact of recent operating results as well as potential carryback of tax to prior years taxable income, reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2011 (except for $32 million related to state deferred tax assets for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any European sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, defaults by, or even mere speculation about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We are unable to make assurances that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Negative perceptions associated with our continued participation in the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors and compete for new business opportunities. On November 14, 2008, Regions issued and sold 3,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase up to 48,253,677 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. The federal regulators have not provided any formal guidance on the conditions to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and appear to address these questions on a case by case basis. Our expectation is that we would be required to generate or raise additional capital prior to exiting TARP. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on market conditions at the time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the U.S. Treasury. Our customers, employees and counterparties in our current and future business relationships may draw negative inferences regarding our strength as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP. Any such negative perceptions and the limitations on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business or to retain high performing employees. If this were to occur our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in ARRA and its implementing regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. Because we have not yet repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released its interim final rule implementing the provisions of the ARRA and limiting the compensation practices at institutions in which the U.S. Treasury is invested. Financial institutions which have repurchased the U.S. Treasurys CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Because we remain subject to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have exited the CPP to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 30 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. Our customers may pursue alternatives to bank deposits which could force us to rely on relatively more expensive sources of funding. We may experience an outflow of deposits because customers seek investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, prefer to do business with our competitors, or otherwise. This outflow of deposits could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to fund our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin. We may also be forced, as a result of any outflow of deposits, to rely more heavily on equity to fund our business, resulting in greater dilution of our existing shareholders. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, environmental, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by Regions can also result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. If personal, non public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties. 31 Table of Contents Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Regions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Regions or our customers confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Regions or our customers or other third parties business operations. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and 32 Table of Contents exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, or failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendors ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reported financial results depend on managements selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect managements judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must 33 Table of Contents select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for credit losses; fair value measurements; intangible assets; mortgage servicing rights; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets and deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Framework in which Our Business Operates We have been the subject of increased litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our reputation. We and certain of our subsidiaries have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to their business and activities. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self regulatory agencies regarding our and their business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition, in recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed lender liability. Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. Additional information relating to litigation affecting Regions and our subsidiaries is discussed in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Regions and Regions Bank are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect 34 Table of Contents depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control of bank holding companies and state chartered banks, maintenance of adequate capital by bank holding companies and state chartered banks, and general business operations and financial condition of Regions and Regions Bank (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Additionally, all our non bank subsidiaries are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, and certain of our other subsidiaries, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators. As a result, we are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section and associated Capital Ratios table of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including: Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, and numerous other requirements on systemically significant institutions, including all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions); Establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms; Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to systemically significant institutions to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates; Establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under TARP, such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act became effective on July 21, 2011, the one year anniversary of its enactment. However, a number of these other provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in some respects, the ultimate impact of the Dodd Frank Act and its effect on Regions and the U.S. financial system generally may not be known for some time. 35 Table of Contents The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act and any future rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past four years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009, and required banks to prepay three years worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC increased the DIFs target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd Frank Acts elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIFs reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, in February 2011, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. The FDIC also adopted a revised risk based assessment calculation in February 2011. In January 2010, the FDIC proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institutions employee compensation programs. Comments were due on February 18, 2010, but as of February 2012, no final rule has been adopted. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increases may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products our peer institutions may offer in response to this repeal. We anticipate that our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new clients or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum 36 Table of Contents capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated as part of the Basel Committee III process and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses conducted on Regions may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review implemented pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and Regions will conduct ongoing stress analyses of Regions in connection with evaluating Regions capital plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will release publicly a summary containing bank holding company specific information and results of the 2012 stress analyses it conducts in connection with the CCAR. Under the Proposed SIFI Rules discussed under Regulatory Reforms in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Federal Reserve will also conduct an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in adverse economic and financial conditions. This stress analysis will use three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to conduct our own semi annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis would be released publicly and contain bank holding company specific information and results. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to disclose publicly the results of our semi annual stress analyses. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting or requiring revisions to our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on 37 Table of Contents the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved its final rule on debit interchange fees. The final rule caps the maximum debit interchange fee at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points (multiplied by the amount of the transaction) to reflect a portion of fraud losses. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the final rule are applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank. The debit interchange fee provision took effect on October 1, 2011. The Federal Reserve estimates that covered issuers, such as Regions Bank, may experience a decline in debit interchange fee revenue by more than 40 percent under the final rule. In 2011, Regions Bank collected $335 million in debit card income. We estimate that our debit card income will likely be reduced by approximately $180 million annually under the final rule before mitigation efforts. In addition to the final rule on debit interchange fees, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that provides an upward adjustment of a maximum of 1 cent to an issuers debit card interchange fee if the issuer establishes and implements procedures that meet specified fraud prevention standards set forth under the interim final rule. In order to receive the adjustment, qualifying issuers must certify their eligibility to the payment card networks in which they participate. The fraud prevention adjustment provision took effect on October 1, 2011, but may be revised by the Federal Reserve at a later date based on comments received through September 30, 2011. Regions is currently eligible for this adjustment. Since this rule is not yet final, the effects of this provision in its final form on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. The final rule also prohibits issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. This network exclusivity provision is applicable to all issuers, even those exempt from the debit interchange fees. Issuers will be subject to the network exclusivity rule beginning on April 1, 2012. The Federal Reserve predicts that this network exclusivity provision may result in higher costs for some issuers and may place downward pressure on interchange fees because merchants may opt to route transactions over less expensive networks. The effects of this rule on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. Risks Related to the Sale of Morgan Keegan The sale of Morgan Keegan may have an adverse impact on our business. Pursuant to a stock purchase agreement entered into on January 11, 2012 (the Stock Purchase Agreement), Regions agreed to sell Morgan Keegan and certain related companies to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for 38 Table of Contents approximately $930 million. The transaction is expected to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to customary conditions including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. We expect to receive a pre closing dividend of $250 million from Morgan Keegan, bringing our total proceeds from the sale to approximately $1.18 billion, subject to adjustment. The cash purchase price calculated under the Stock Purchase Agreement is subject to adjustment based on (1) the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan as of the closing of the transaction and (2) retention of Morgan Keegan employees through the date 90 days after closing of the transaction (the Measurement Date). If a significant number of Morgan Keegan employees leave prior to the Measurement Date or if the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan declines, the purchase price for Morgan Keegan that we receive under the Stock Purchase Agreement may be decreased. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. 39 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, 40 Table of Contents or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2011, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,726 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from 90 full service offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2011, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Banks branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2012, there were 73,015 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2011, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 November 1 30, 2011 23,072,300 December 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 Total 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 43 Table of Contents Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 44 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 Regions $ 100.00 $ 66.36 $ 23.90 $ 16.39 $ 21.81 $ 13.51 S&P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76 S&P Banks Index 100.00 77.32 48.97 45.67 55.31 49.79 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act will directly affect our ability to conduct our business including: Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, and numerous other requirements on systemically significant institutions, including all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (which would include Regions); Establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight of large financial firms; Imposition of additional costs and fees, including fees to be set by the Federal Reserve and charged to systemically significant institutions to cover the cost of regulating such institutions and any FDIC assessment made to cover the costs of any regular or special examination of Regions or its affiliates; Establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; Application to bank holding companies of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under TARP, such as the Series A Preferred Stock, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. Many of the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act became effective on July 21, 2011, the one year anniversary of its enactment. However, a number of these other provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities and have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in some respects, the ultimate impact of the Dodd Frank Act and its effect on Regions and the U.S. financial system generally may not be known for some time. 35 Table of Contents The provisions of the Dodd Frank Act and any future rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. High levels of bank failures over the past four years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009, and required banks to prepay three years worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC increased the DIFs target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd Frank Acts elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIFs reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, in February 2011, pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. The FDIC also adopted a revised risk based assessment calculation in February 2011. In January 2010, the FDIC proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institutions employee compensation programs. Comments were due on February 18, 2010, but as of February 2012, no final rule has been adopted. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increases may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products our peer institutions may offer in response to this repeal. We anticipate that our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new clients or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum 36 Table of Contents capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated as part of the Basel Committee III process and implemented by the Federal Reserve, we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more information concerning our compliance with capital requirements, see the Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses conducted on Regions may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review implemented pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and Regions will conduct ongoing stress analyses of Regions in connection with evaluating Regions capital plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will release publicly a summary containing bank holding company specific information and results of the 2012 stress analyses it conducts in connection with the CCAR. Under the Proposed SIFI Rules discussed under Regulatory Reforms in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Federal Reserve will also conduct an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in adverse economic and financial conditions. This stress analysis will use three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to conduct our own semi annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis would be released publicly and contain bank holding company specific information and results. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to disclose publicly the results of our semi annual stress analyses. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting or requiring revisions to our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on 37 Table of Contents the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved its final rule on debit interchange fees. The final rule caps the maximum debit interchange fee at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points (multiplied by the amount of the transaction) to reflect a portion of fraud losses. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the final rule are applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank. The debit interchange fee provision took effect on October 1, 2011. The Federal Reserve estimates that covered issuers, such as Regions Bank, may experience a decline in debit interchange fee revenue by more than 40 percent under the final rule. In 2011, Regions Bank collected $335 million in debit card income. We estimate that our debit card income will likely be reduced by approximately $180 million annually under the final rule before mitigation efforts. In addition to the final rule on debit interchange fees, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that provides an upward adjustment of a maximum of 1 cent to an issuers debit card interchange fee if the issuer establishes and implements procedures that meet specified fraud prevention standards set forth under the interim final rule. In order to receive the adjustment, qualifying issuers must certify their eligibility to the payment card networks in which they participate. The fraud prevention adjustment provision took effect on October 1, 2011, but may be revised by the Federal Reserve at a later date based on comments received through September 30, 2011. Regions is currently eligible for this adjustment. Since this rule is not yet final, the effects of this provision in its final form on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. The final rule also prohibits issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. This network exclusivity provision is applicable to all issuers, even those exempt from the debit interchange fees. Issuers will be subject to the network exclusivity rule beginning on April 1, 2012. The Federal Reserve predicts that this network exclusivity provision may result in higher costs for some issuers and may place downward pressure on interchange fees because merchants may opt to route transactions over less expensive networks. The effects of this rule on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. Risks Related to the Sale of Morgan Keegan The sale of Morgan Keegan may have an adverse impact on our business. Pursuant to a stock purchase agreement entered into on January 11, 2012 (the Stock Purchase Agreement), Regions agreed to sell Morgan Keegan and certain related companies to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for 38 Table of Contents approximately $930 million. The transaction is expected to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to customary conditions including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. We expect to receive a pre closing dividend of $250 million from Morgan Keegan, bringing our total proceeds from the sale to approximately $1.18 billion, subject to adjustment. The cash purchase price calculated under the Stock Purchase Agreement is subject to adjustment based on (1) the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan as of the closing of the transaction and (2) retention of Morgan Keegan employees through the date 90 days after closing of the transaction (the Measurement Date). If a significant number of Morgan Keegan employees leave prior to the Measurement Date or if the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan declines, the purchase price for Morgan Keegan that we receive under the Stock Purchase Agreement may be decreased. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. 39 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, 40 Table of Contents or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2011, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,726 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from 90 full service offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2011, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Banks branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2012, there were 73,015 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2011, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 November 1 30, 2011 23,072,300 December 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 Total 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 43 Table of Contents Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 44 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 Regions $ 100.00 $ 66.36 $ 23.90 $ 16.39 $ 21.81 $ 13.51 S&P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76 S&P Banks Index 100.00 77.32 48.97 45.67 55.31 49.79 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses conducted on Regions may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review implemented pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and Regions will conduct ongoing stress analyses of Regions in connection with evaluating Regions capital plan. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will release publicly a summary containing bank holding company specific information and results of the 2012 stress analyses it conducts in connection with the CCAR. Under the Proposed SIFI Rules discussed under Regulatory Reforms in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the Federal Reserve will also conduct an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in adverse economic and financial conditions. This stress analysis will use three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to conduct our own semi annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions, including our consolidated earnings, losses and capital, under each of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserves annual stress analysis would be released publicly and contain bank holding company specific information and results. The Proposed SIFI Rules would also require us to disclose publicly the results of our semi annual stress analyses. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, and even if we remain strong, stable and well capitalized, we cannot predict our customers potential misinterpretation of, and adverse reaction to, the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our regulators may require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting or requiring revisions to our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important non bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. The Dodd Frank Act creates a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important nonbank financial companies, including bank holding companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on 37 Table of Contents the FDICs bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Rules regulating the imposition of debit card income may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd Frank Act gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for transactions in which a person uses certain types of debit cards, requiring that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to such transaction, subject to a possible adjustment to account for costs incurred in connection with the issuers fraud prevention policies. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve approved its final rule on debit interchange fees. The final rule caps the maximum debit interchange fee at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points (multiplied by the amount of the transaction) to reflect a portion of fraud losses. The restrictions on interchange fees contained in the final rule are applicable to all debit card issuers who, together with their affiliates, possess more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank. The debit interchange fee provision took effect on October 1, 2011. The Federal Reserve estimates that covered issuers, such as Regions Bank, may experience a decline in debit interchange fee revenue by more than 40 percent under the final rule. In 2011, Regions Bank collected $335 million in debit card income. We estimate that our debit card income will likely be reduced by approximately $180 million annually under the final rule before mitigation efforts. In addition to the final rule on debit interchange fees, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that provides an upward adjustment of a maximum of 1 cent to an issuers debit card interchange fee if the issuer establishes and implements procedures that meet specified fraud prevention standards set forth under the interim final rule. In order to receive the adjustment, qualifying issuers must certify their eligibility to the payment card networks in which they participate. The fraud prevention adjustment provision took effect on October 1, 2011, but may be revised by the Federal Reserve at a later date based on comments received through September 30, 2011. Regions is currently eligible for this adjustment. Since this rule is not yet final, the effects of this provision in its final form on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. The final rule also prohibits issuers and payment card networks from restricting the number of payment card networks on which an electronic debit transaction may be processed to fewer than two unaffiliated networks, regardless of the means by which a transaction may be authorized. This network exclusivity provision is applicable to all issuers, even those exempt from the debit interchange fees. Issuers will be subject to the network exclusivity rule beginning on April 1, 2012. The Federal Reserve predicts that this network exclusivity provision may result in higher costs for some issuers and may place downward pressure on interchange fees because merchants may opt to route transactions over less expensive networks. The effects of this rule on our business, financial condition or results of operation are not yet known at this time. Risks Related to the Sale of Morgan Keegan The sale of Morgan Keegan may have an adverse impact on our business. Pursuant to a stock purchase agreement entered into on January 11, 2012 (the Stock Purchase Agreement), Regions agreed to sell Morgan Keegan and certain related companies to Raymond James Financial, Inc. for 38 Table of Contents approximately $930 million. The transaction is expected to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to customary conditions including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. We expect to receive a pre closing dividend of $250 million from Morgan Keegan, bringing our total proceeds from the sale to approximately $1.18 billion, subject to adjustment. The cash purchase price calculated under the Stock Purchase Agreement is subject to adjustment based on (1) the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan as of the closing of the transaction and (2) retention of Morgan Keegan employees through the date 90 days after closing of the transaction (the Measurement Date). If a significant number of Morgan Keegan employees leave prior to the Measurement Date or if the tangible book value of Morgan Keegan declines, the purchase price for Morgan Keegan that we receive under the Stock Purchase Agreement may be decreased. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by: Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; Expectations of or actual equity dilution; Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage related securities; and Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have shown considerable volatility in the recent past. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the Stockholders Equity section of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. 39 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, 40 Table of Contents or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2011, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,726 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from 90 full service offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2011, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Banks branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2012, there were 73,015 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2011, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 November 1 30, 2011 23,072,300 December 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 Total 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 43 Table of Contents Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 44 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 Regions $ 100.00 $ 66.36 $ 23.90 $ 16.39 $ 21.81 $ 13.51 S&P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76 S&P Banks Index 100.00 77.32 48.97 45.67 55.31 49.79 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiarys liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiarys creditors. 39 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends on your common stock. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Regions is also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organizations expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. Recently issued temporary guidance from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed, among other things, against our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30 percent of after tax net income. Additionally, as of December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve will require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets, such as Regions, to submit annual capital plans to the applicable Federal Reserve Bank for review before they can make capital distributions such as dividends. If the Federal Reserve does not approve Regions capital plan, Regions may not be able to declare dividends. Anti takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10 percent or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer controls the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future; such capital may be dilutive to our existing shareholders or may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The recent economic slowdown and loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. Additionally, our long term debt securities are currently rated below investment grade by certain of the credit ratings agencies. As a non investment grade issuer, our cost of funding and access to the capital markets may be further limited. We cannot assure you that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, our status as a non investment grade issuer, 40 Table of Contents or a further downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders equity ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing shareholders. Future equity offerings could impair the value of our deferred tax assets and adversely affect our capital ratios. Our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5 percent shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percent (as defined in the Code) over a rolling three year period. Any corporation experiencing an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its deferred tax assets prior to the ownership change equal to the value of such corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long term tax exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation arising from an ownership change under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets would depend on the value of Regions stock at the time of the ownership change. As a result, future investments by new or existing 5 percent shareholders or issuances of common equity could materially increase the risk that we could experience an ownership change in the future. If we were to experience an ownership change under section 382 of the Code for any reason, the value of our deferred tax assets may be impaired and may cause a decrease in our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Regions corporate headquarters occupy the main banking facility of Regions Bank, located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203. At December 31, 2011, Regions Bank, Regions banking subsidiary, operated 1,726 banking offices. Regions provides investment banking and brokerage services from 90 full service offices of Morgan Keegan. At December 31, 2011, there were no significant encumbrances on the offices, equipment and other operational facilities owned by Regions and its subsidiaries. See Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a list of the states in which Regions Banks branches and Morgan Keegans offices are located. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information required by this item is set forth in Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Executive Officers of the Registrant Information concerning the Executive Officers of Regions is set forth under Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market For Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Regions common stock, par value $.01 per share, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RF. Quarterly high and low sales prices of and cash dividends declared on Regions common stock are set forth in Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations of Managements Discussion and Analysis, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of February 15, 2012, there were 73,015 holders of record of Regions common stock (including participants in the Computershare Investment Plan for Regions Financial Corporation). Restrictions on the ability of Regions Bank to transfer funds to Regions at December 31, 2011, are set forth in Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A discussion of certain limitations on the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends to Regions and the ability of Regions to pay dividends on its common stock is set forth in Item 1. Business under the heading Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table presents information regarding issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms October 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 November 1 30, 2011 23,072,300 December 1 31, 2011 23,072,300 Total 23,072,300 On January 18, 2007, Regions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 50 million shares of Regions common stock through open market or privately negotiated transactions and announced the authorization of this repurchase. As indicated in the table above, approximately 23.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the existing plan. Restrictions on Dividends and Repurchase of Stock Holders of Regions common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as Regions board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Furthermore, holders of Regions common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of Regions preferred stock then outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, there were 3,500,000 shares of Regions Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) with liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, Regions ability to declare and pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase certain equity securities, including Regions common stock, will be subject to restrictions in the event Regions fails to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. 43 Table of Contents Regions has reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.01 per share and does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above such level for the foreseeable future. Also, Regions is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. In addition, the terms of Regions outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit it from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Regions capital stock, including its common stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if Regions has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. 44 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below is a graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total return of Regions common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Banks Index for the past five years. This presentation assumes that the value of the investment in Regions common stock and in each index was $100 and that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative Total Return 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 Regions $ 100.00 $ 66.36 $ 23.90 $ 16.39 $ 21.81 $ 13.51 S&P 500 Index 100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76 S&P Banks Index 100.00 77.32 48.97 45.67 55.31 49.79 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The information required by Item 6. is set forth in Table 1 Financial Highlights of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 45 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporations (Regions or the Company) business, particularly regarding its 2011 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Morgan Keegan On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (Morgan Keegan) to Raymond James Financial, Inc. (Raymond James) for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approval, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions, subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. The transaction purchase price is subject to adjustment based on the closing tangible equity of the entities being sold and retention of Morgan Keegan associates in the period 90 days after closing. Regions believes any adjustments to the sales price will not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, Regions will indemnify Raymond James for all litigation matters related to pre closing activities. At closing, Regions will recognize the fair values of the indemnification, which will require an estimate of approximately $210 million of additional liabilities, and will be included in the gain / (loss) on disposition. The transaction reduces the Companys overall risk profile, provides substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improves key capital ratios. It also establishes a business relationship with Raymond James, which is expected to provide incremental revenue opportunities and a source of low cost deposits. As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Intangible Assets within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Note 3 Discontinued Operations to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements Note 25 Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements Credit The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions loan portfolio. Although the economy is recovering at a slow pace, unemployment remains high and the housing sector continues to be weak. However, even with this backdrop, Regions did experience credit quality improvement in 2011. Regions investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 33 percent in 2011 and totaled $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Companys most distressed loans, declined 43 percent and ended the year at $1.8 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 40 percent decline in total gross inflows of non performing loans in 2011. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized loans, which are the Companys earliest 46 Table of Contents indicator of problem loans, declined 35 percent, and non performing assets decreased 24 percent during 2011. These favorable trends contributed to a 29 percent decline in net charge offs and a 47 percent decrease in the 2011 loan loss provision. Although the loan loss provision declined, the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non performing loans was 1.16x as of December 31, 2011, up from 1.01x as of December 31, 2010. Management is encouraged by these trends and is cautiously optimistic that credit metrics will continue to trend favorably. However, unemployment remains high throughout Regions footprint, property valuations continue to be pressured, and credit costs are expected to remain elevated, as compared to historical levels. New accounting guidance led to a higher level of troubled debt restructurings during 2011. The change had no material impact on the Companys overall allowance for loan losses. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A Other Real Estate Owned discussion within the Non Interest Expense section of MD&A Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Credit Risk section of MD&A Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity At the end of 2011, Regions Bank had over $4.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan to deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash at the parent company totaled $2.5 billion. Furthermore, as noted in the Morgan Keegan section above, the parent company cash level is expected to increase from the proceeds of the sale of Morgan Keegan. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of cash to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service, dividends, and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and for acceptable periods at the bank and other affiliates. The Companys liquidity contingency planning does not rely on unsecured sources, although these markets are periodically tested to ensure they are available. Maturities of loans and securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs. At December 31, 2011, the Companys borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.4 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the FHLB was $5.4 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Company also has a bank note program and has issued senior and subordinated notes at the parent company level. In 2011, Regions long term outlook was raised to stable from negative from both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings. In February 2012, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) revised Regions outlook to stable from negative. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: Discussion of Short Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Discussion of Long Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A Ratings section of MD&A Liquidity Risk section of MD&A Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk In 2011, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.07 percent from 2.91 percent in 2010, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.49 percent in 2011 from 0.78 percent in 2010. However, the margin continues to be negatively affected by a persistently low interest rate environment, elevated non performing asset levels, and elevated cash levels. Loan yields remained stable at 4.31 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as re entering credit cards and indirect auto lending. However, the Companys securities yield declined 58 basis points driven by higher prepayments in its agency guaranteed residential mortgage backed securities portfolio and reinvesting proceeds into lower yielding securities. The Company decreased the duration of the securities portfolio to 2.1 years as of December 31, 2011 from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2010. Management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of cash at the Federal Reserve and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A Regulatory Capital Regions ability to maintain appropriate levels of capital is critical to its safety and soundness. At December 31, 2011, Regions Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent, respectively. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP) based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines are 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, respectively. These ratios are above the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent. Regions capital planning process is executed by management, overseen by the Board of Directors, and supervised by banking regulators. The process utilizes a base case, multiple adverse cases and a growth forecast. In early 2012, as part of the required Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), Regions submitted four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions expects to receive its results from the Federal Reserve by the middle of March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of the CCAR for Regions and all companies that participated. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10 K: 2011 Overview discussion in MD&A Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP reconciliation Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted. Regions profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between 48 Table of Contents the interest income Regions receives on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. In 2011, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge related to the investment banking/brokerage/trust reporting unit. In 2010, Regions non interest expense from continuing operations included a $75 million regulatory charge. Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions market areas. Regions business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Dispositions On January 11, 2012, Regions announced that it had entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc., for approximately $930 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Morgan Keegan will also pay Regions a dividend of $250 million before closing, pending regulatory approvals, resulting in total proceeds of approximately $1.18 billion to Regions subject to adjustment. The transaction is anticipated to close around the end of the first quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan Keegan Trust are not included in the sale. Results of operations for the entities being sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations because the pending sale met all of the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations at the December 31, 2011 balance sheet date. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event for further details. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments: Banking/Treasury Regions primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Companys securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2011, Regions banking and treasury operations contributed $355 million of net income. 49 Table of Contents Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust Regions has provided investment banking, brokerage and trust services through Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Due to the pending sale of Morgan Keegan, Regions has separated these categories into continuing operations, which includes trust and asset management services to be retained by Regions, and discontinued operations, which includes Morgan Keegans private client, retail brokerage services, fixed income capital markets and equity capital markets line of businesses. Prior year disclosures have been adjusted to conform to the 2011 presentation. In 2011, Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust operations reported a loss of $595 million, primarily as the result of a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge. Insurance Regions provides insurance related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 20 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The Insurance segment also offers credit related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed $25 million of net income in 2011. During 2011, minor reclassifications were made from the Banking/Treasury segment to the Insurance segment to more appropriately present managements current view of the segments. See Note 22 Business Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions business segments. 50 Table of Contents Table 1 Financial Highlights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) EARNINGS SUMMARY Interest income $ 4,252 $ 4,637 $ 5,277 $ 6,465 $ 7,894 Interest expense 842 1,248 1,984 2,677 3,557 Net interest income 3,410 3,389 3,293 3,788 4,337 Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 555 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 1,880 526 (248 ) 1,731 3,782 Non interest income 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Non interest expense 3,862 3,859 3,785 9,895 3,821 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 161 (844 ) (1,268 ) (6,032 ) 1,879 Income tax expense (benefit) (28 ) (376 ) (194 ) (383 ) 594 Income (loss) from continuing operations 189 (468 ) (1,074 ) (5,649 ) 1,285 Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (408 ) (41 ) 66 81 (58 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (4 ) 30 23 28 (24 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Net income (loss) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (429 ) $ (763 ) $ (1,261 ) $ (5,622 ) $ 1,251 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.81 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (0.02 ) (0.56 ) (1.32 ) (8.17 ) 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share basic (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.77 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (0.34 ) (0.62 ) (1.27 ) (8.09 ) 1.76 Return on average common stockholders equity from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.21 )% (5.57 )% (10.23 )% (31.37 )% 6.87 % Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) (1) (0.36 ) (9.36 ) (17.13 ) (79.92 ) 17.15 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) (0.02 ) (0.52 ) (0.93 ) (4.04 ) (0.95 ) BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY At year end Consolidated Loans, net of unearned income $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 $ 95,379 Allowance for loan losses (2,745 ) (3,185 ) (3,114 ) (1,826 ) (1,321 ) Assets 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Deposits 95,627 94,614 98,680 90,904 94,775 Long term debt 8,110 13,190 18,464 19,231 11,325 Stockholders equity 16,499 16,734 17,881 16,813 19,823 Average balances Continuing Operations Loans, net of unearned income $ 80,673 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 $ 94,366 Assets 126,719 132,720 139,468 140,455 134,693 Deposits 95,671 96,489 94,612 90,077 95,725 Long term debt 11,240 15,489 18,501 13,422 9,089 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 18,514 18,721 SELECTED RATIOS Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.54 3.84 3.43 1.87 1.39 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans, net of unearned income 3.64 3.93 3.52 1.95 1.45 Tier 1 capital 13.28 12.40 11.54 10.38 7.29 Tier 1 common (non GAAP) (1) 8.51 7.85 7.15 6.57 NM Total capital 16.99 16.35 15.78 14.64 11.25 Leverage 9.91 9.30 8.90 8.47 6.66 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) (1) 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) (1) 64.56 67.74 67.88 60.67 54.95 COMMON STOCK DATA Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.13 $ 0.96 $ 1.46 Stockholders common equity per share 10.39 10.63 11.97 19.53 28.58 Market value at year end 4.30 7.00 5.29 7.96 23.65 Market price range: High 8.09 9.33 9.07 25.84 38.17 Low 2.82 5.12 2.35 6.41 22.84 Total trading volume 5,204 6,381 8,747 3,411 912 Dividend payout ratio NM NM NM NM 82.49 Shareholders of record at year end (actual) 73,659 76,996 81,166 83,600 85,060 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 1,258 1,227 989 695 708 Diluted 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 NM Not meaningful (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non GAAP reconciliations. 51 Table of Contents 2011 OVERVIEW Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million or $0.34 per diluted common share in 2011. A significant driver of 2011 results was a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) goodwill impairment charge related to the Companys Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment, resulting from the process of selling Morgan Keegan. This impairment charge included $478 million related to discontinued operations and $253 million from continuing operations. Another significant driver of 2011 results included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Credit related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2011 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low cost deposits grew 5 percent leading to a decline in both 2011s total deposit and funding costs. Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.4 billion in 2011. The net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011, as short term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products. Although the net interest margin from continuing operations increased in 2011, the factors that have pressured it are likely to persist. These factors include a continuation of persistent, low level of interest rates, elevated non performing asset levels and costs associated with managing prudent levels of liquidity. However, management expects to see incremental improvement in net interest income and the resulting net interest margin in 2012 as the amount of excess cash reserves and non performing assets continue to decline. Furthermore, Regions balance sheet is in an asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. Net charge offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. Non performing assets decreased $922 million from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 to $3.0 billion. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased to $1.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2010. The allowance for loan losses was $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011 as compared to $3.2 billion, or 3.84 percent of loans, at December 31, 2010. Net charge offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2011. This relationship resulted from the allowance associated with loans transferred to held for sale and improving consumer credit trends. Credit metrics, including non accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies showed continued improving trends. Non interest income from continuing operations decreased to $2.1 billion in 2011 from $2.5 billion in 2010. The year over year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains, as well as a decline in mortgage income. However, service charges income was relatively stable in 2011 compared to 2010, despite the impact of Regulation E and the Durbin Amendment. See Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 5 Non Interest Income for further details. 52 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Non interest expenses included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. The 2011 period included lower salaries and employee benefits due to reduced headcount and lower pension expense, lower occupancy expense and lower credit related costs. The 2010 period was impacted by a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to prepayment of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. See Table 6, Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) for further details. Total loans decreased by $5.3 billion, or 6.4 percent in 2011, driven primarily by a strategic decision to lower exposure to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year over year decrease primarily resulting from consumers decisions to de leverage. These decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category, the purchase of a $1.1 billion credit card portfolio, and increases in indirect loans. Total deposits increased $1.0 billion in 2011 to $95.6 billion at December 31, 2011, and low cost customer deposits increased $4.4 billion, or 6.2 percent, in 2011. Regions Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and Tier 1 common (non GAAP) ratios were 13.28 percent and 8.51 percent at December 31, 2011. The corresponding Basel III ratios (non GAAP), based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 percent and 7.70 percent, which exceed the respective Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent and 7 percent (see Table 2, GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for a reconciliation of the non GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure). Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit; these measures include fee income ratio, efficiency ratio, return on average assets from continuing operations, return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations, end of period tangible common stockholders equity and related ratios, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, and Basel III ratios, all of which are non GAAP measures. Merger, goodwill impairment, and the regulatory charge and related income tax benefit are included in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Regions believes the exclusion of merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non GAAP financial measures as follows: Preparation of Regions operating budgets Monthly financial performance reporting Monthly close out reporting of consolidated results (management only) Presentations to investors of Company performance Regions believes that presenting these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors. The third quarter of 2008 was the final quarter for merger charges related to the AmSouth acquisition. The efficiency ratio (non GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non interest expense divided by total revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis. The fee ratio (non GAAP) is generally calculated as non interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee ratio. Net interest income on a 53 Table of Contents fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) and non interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period to period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Tangible common stockholders equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a banks capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserves CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not codified, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders equity and or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on these same bases. Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk weighted assets. Under the risk based capital framework, a banks balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements. Regions currently calculates its risk based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (Basel I) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulation. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. Implementation of Basel III will begin on January 1, 2013, and will be phased in over a multi year period. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet adopted final regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions current understanding of the framework, including the Companys reading of the requirements, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions capital adequacy on the same basis. 54 Table of Contents Non GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., the merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge are a reduction to earnings and stockholders equity). The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, 2) income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations (GAAP) to earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non interest income (non GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non GAAP), 7), a computation of the fee income ratio (non GAAP), 8) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non GAAP), 9) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 10) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, excluding discontinued operations, merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 12) a reconciliation of stockholders equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 capital (non GAAP), Basel III total capital (non GAAP) and Basel III Tier 1 common (non GAAP) and calculations of related ratios. 55 Table of Contents Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) INCOME (LOSS) Net income (loss) (GAAP) $ (215 ) $ (539 ) $ (1,031 ) $ (5,596 ) $ 1,251 Preferred dividends and accretion (GAAP) (214 ) (224 ) (230 ) (26 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) A (429 ) (763 ) (1,261 ) (5,622 ) 1,251 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (GAAP) (404 ) (71 ) 43 53 (34 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) B $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) $ (25 ) $ (692 ) $ (1,304 ) $ (5,675 ) $ 1,285 Merger related charges, pre tax: Salaries and employee benefits 134 159 Net occupancy expense 4 34 Furniture and equipment expense 5 5 Other 58 153 Total merger related charges, pre tax 201 351 Merger related charges, net of tax 125 219 Goodwill impairment 253 6,000 Regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (1) (17 ) 75 Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C $ 211 $ (617 ) $ (1,304 ) $ 450 $ 1,504 Weighted average diluted shares D 1,258 1,227 989 695 713 Earnings (loss) per common share diluted (GAAP) A/D $ (0.34 ) $ (0.62 ) $ (1.27 ) $ (8.09 ) $ 1.75 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted (GAAP) B/D $ (0.02 ) $ (0.56 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (8.16 ) $ 1.80 Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit diluted (non GAAP) C/D $ 0.17 $ (0.50 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 0.65 $ 2.11 EFFICIENCY AND FEE INCOME RATIOS Non interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 $ 9,895 $ 3,821 Adjustments: Merger related charges (201 ) (351 ) Goodwill impairment (253 ) (6,000 ) Regulatory charge (75 ) Mortgage servicing rights impairment (85 ) (6 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt (108 ) (66 ) FDIC special assessment (64 ) Securities impairment, net (2 ) (2 ) (75 ) (23 ) (7 ) Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges (75 ) (8 ) (53 ) Adjusted non interest expense (non GAAP) E $ 3,532 $ 3,666 $ 3,593 $ 3,520 $ 3,457 Net interest income from continuing operations, fully taxable equivalent basis (GAAP) $ 3,445 $ 3,421 $ 3,325 $ 3,825 $ 4,364 Non interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) 2,143 2,489 2,765 2,132 1,918 Adjustments: Securities (gains) losses, net (112 ) (394 ) (69 ) (92 ) 9 Leveraged lease termination gains (8 ) (78 ) (587 ) Visa related gains (80 ) (63 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt (61 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans 3 (26 ) Adjusted non interest income (non GAAP) F 2,026 1,991 1,968 1,977 1,927 Adjusted total revenue (non GAAP) G $ 5,471 $ 5,412 $ 5,293 $ 5,802 $ 6,291 Fee income ratio (non GAAP) F/G 37.03 % 36.79 % 37.18 % 34.07 % 30.63 % Efficiency ratio (non GAAP) E/G 64.56 % 67.74 % 67.88 % 60.67 % 54.95 % 56 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) RETURN ON AVERAGE ASSETS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2) Average assets (GAAP) continuing operations (2) H $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 $ 140,455 $ 134,693 Return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) B/H (0.02 %) (0.52 %) (0.93 %) (4.04 %) 0.95 % Return on average assets from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/H 0.17 % (0.46 %) (0.93 %) 0.32 % 1.12 % RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3) Average stockholders equity (GAAP) continuing operations (3) $ 15,350 $ 15,916 $ 16,224 $ 18,514 $ 18,721 Less: Average intangible assets (GAAP) continuing operations 5,261 5,295 5,411 11,309 11,597 Average deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) continuing operations (226 ) (254 ) (285 ) (321 ) (370 ) Average preferred equity (GAAP) continuing operations 3,398 3,479 3,487 425 Average tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) continuing operations I $ 6,917 $ 7,396 $ 7,611 $ 7,101 $ 7,494 Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations (non GAAP) B/I (0.36 %) (9.36 %) (17.13 %) (79.92 %) 17.15 % Return on average tangible common equity from continuing operations, excluding merger, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related income tax benefit (non GAAP) C/I 3.05 % (8.34 %) (17.13 %) 6.34 % 20.07 % TANGIBLE COMMON RATIOS Ending stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 $ 19,823 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending preferred equity (GAAP) 3,419 3,380 3,602 3,307 Ending tangible common stockholders equity (non GAAP) J $ 8,015 $ 7,648 $ 8,488 $ 7,623 $ 7,910 Ending total assets (GAAP) 127,050 132,351 142,318 146,248 141,042 Less: Ending intangible assets (GAAP) 5,265 5,946 6,060 6,186 12,252 Ending deferred tax liability related to intangibles (GAAP) (200 ) (240 ) (269 ) (303 ) (339 ) Ending tangible assets (non GAAP) K $ 121,985 $ 126,645 $ 136,527 $ 140,365 $ 129,129 End of period shares outstanding L 1,259 1,256 1,193 691 694 Tangible common stockholders equity to tangible assets(non GAAP) J/K 6.58 % 6.04 % 6.22 % 5.43 % 6.13 % Tangible common book value per share (non GAAP) J/L $ 6.37 $ 6.09 $ 7.11 $ 11.03 $ 11.40 57 Table of Contents For Years Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per share data) TIER 1 COMMON RISK BASED RATIO Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 $ 17,881 $ 16,813 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 (130 ) 8 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) (5,792 ) (5,864 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (4) (432 ) (424 ) (947 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) (25 ) (16 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 91 91 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 846 1,036 Tier 1 capital (regulatory) 12,139 11,775 11,924 12,068 Qualifying non controlling interests (92 ) (92 ) (91 ) (91 ) Qualifying trust preferred securities (846 ) (846 ) (846 ) (1,036 ) Preferred stock (3,419 ) (3,380 ) (3,602 ) (3,307 ) Tier 1 common equity (non GAAP) M $ 7,782 $ 7,457 $ 7,385 $ 7,634 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) N $ 91,449 $ 94,966 $ 103,330 $ 116,251 Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) M/N 8.51 % 7.85 % 7.15 % 6.57 % BASEL III RATIOS Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (5) (5,065 ) Adjustments, including other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges, disallowed deferred tax assets, threshold deductions and other adjustments (854 ) 10,580 Qualifying non controlling interests 4 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) O 10,584 Basel III tier 1 capital (non GAAP) 10,584 Preferred stock (3,419 ) Qualifying non controlling interests (4 ) Basel III tier 1 common (non GAAP) P $ 7,161 Basel I risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 Basel III risk weighted assets (non GAAP) (6) Q $ 92,935 Basel III tier 1 capital ratio (non GAAP) O/Q 11.39 % Basel III tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) P/Q 7.70 % (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations. (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million, $3,492 million and $4,064 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (3) Return on average tangible common stockholders equity from continuing operations does not include net assets related to discontinued operations of $1,035 million, $1,512 million, $1,569 million, $1,514 million and $1,304 million for December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (4) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital. (6) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on Regions understanding of the requirements. 58 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (allowance) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect managements judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the Allowance for Credit Losses section within the discussion of Credit Risk, found in a later section of this report, and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions estimate of the allowance and results of operations. Managements estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individuals credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (PD) and a loss given default (LGD). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $125 million. For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $35 million. Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts. The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. 59 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Companys assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and impaired loans. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to normal market activity, managements objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Companys own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $5.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and is allocated to each of Regions reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, 60 Table of Contents impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the after tax valuation of assets and liabilities and the fair value of the reporting unit (from Step One). Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20 year risk free rate, 5 year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated: 4th Quarter2011 3rd Quarter2011 2nd Quarter2011 1st Quarter2011 4th Quarter2010 Discount Rate 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % 15 % In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for the reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and or budgets that range from 1 to 5 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Companys capital planning processes. Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 Intangible Assets for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Companys market capitalization remaining below book value. The long term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets). The results of these calculations indicated that the fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit was less than the carrying amount. At October 1, 2011, the carrying amount and fair value of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit were $12.0 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $4.7 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed. In Step Two, the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities, including the loan portfolio, intangible assets, time deposits, debt, and other assets and liabilities were calculated. Once the fair values were determined, deferred tax adjustments were calculated as applicable. For the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the after tax effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write downs of 61 Table of Contents assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 12 percent as of October 1, 2011 compared to approximately 29 percent as of fourth quarter 2010. Since the third quarter of 2009, the fair values of net assets and liabilities of the Banking/Treasury reporting unit have increased faster than the fair value of equity of this reporting unit. Should the fair values of net assets continue to increase more rapidly than the fair value of this reporting unit, goodwill could be impaired in future periods. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, Regions experienced a significant decline in market capitalization relative to prior periods. The large cap banking sector also experienced a decline in market capitalization albeit not as significant as that of Regions. This resulted in price to tangible book values declining and resulted in an overall value conclusion for the Banking/Treasury reporting unit that would be indicative of a distressed sale in the public company method. Accordingly, Regions increased the control premium utilized in the public company method from 30 percent in 2010 to 55 percent in the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011. The higher control premium was evidenced by market transactions occurring in 2010. See attached sensitivity tables for additional information. For the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit, Regions performed and passed Step One of the goodwill impairment test as of the annual test date in the fourth quarter of 2011. Subsequent to that test, Regions received bids later in the fourth quarter from buyers interested in purchasing the Morgan Keegan component of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit; these bids were significantly below the value indications received from bidders as of October 1, 2011. The collapse and bankruptcy of a large brokerage firm and subsequent market disruptions that occurred in November of 2011 as a result impacted the significant price declines related to this component. Accordingly, Regions tested the goodwill of the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit as of December 15, 2011, resulting in the reporting unit failing Step One. As a result, Regions conducted Step Two for this reporting unit, which indicated impairment of all of the $745 million of goodwill allocated to the Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting unit. Apart from the observed decline in the equity value of the reporting unit, the primary drivers of the impairment were recognition of customer and other identifiable intangibles in Step Two that are not required to be recognized in the GAAP financial statements of the reporting unit that must be calculated in the Step Two in the goodwill impairment test. The pre tax $745 million impairment charge was allocated between continuing operations ($253 million) and discontinued operations ($492 million) based on relative fair values of the equity of the two components of the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item that does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Companys market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets compared to equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd Frank Act, and or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014. 62 Table of Contents The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors or significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Banking/Treasury reporting unit and the outcome of the Step One tests for the Insurance reporting unit: Banking/Treasury Reporting Unit Change in Discount Rate Estimated Amountof Impairment (In millions) + 0.75% $ (a) + 1.75% (558 ) + 2.75% (1,007 ) Change in Tangible Book Value Mulipliers (b) (34)% $ (a) 55% Public Company Method Control Premium Changed To 3% $ (a) Improvement in Loan Fair Values + 1.10 Percentage Points $ (a) + 2.10 Percentage Points (478 ) + 3.10 Percentage Points (967 ) (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value. (b) Represents a 34 percent decline in both tangible book value multipliers of 0.7x and 1.1x for the public company method and the transaction method, respectively. The 0.7x multiplier for the public company method is before the 55 percent control premium utilized for this metric. See Note 9 for further details. Impact to Step One Conclusion Insurance Reporting Unit Impact of Change Change in Discount Rate Insurance + 1% Pass + 2% Pass + 3% Pass Change in Market Approach Mulipliers (c) 10% Pass 20% Pass 30% Pass 40% Pass (c) For Insurance, represents the percent decline in the 13.0x multiplier for the last twelve months of net income. The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change. 63 Table of Contents Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the Fair Value Measurements section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 11 percent ($20 million) and 21 percent ($38 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2011 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 12 percent ($21 million) and 24 percent ($43 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 2 basis points. The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the Mortgage Servicing Rights discussion in the Balance Sheet analysis section found later in this report. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect managements estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the Income Taxes section found later in this report. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a 64 Table of Contents range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. The Companys estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OPERATING RESULTS GENERAL For 2011, Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities being sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share in 2011. Regions net loss from discontinued operations was $404 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share. Regions 2011 results were impacted by a $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) non cash goodwill impairment charge related to Regions Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust reporting segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $253 million of the impairment charges was recorded within continuing operations and $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations. Regions 2011 results also included a $44 million income tax benefit related to a regulatory settlement, of which approximately $17 million was associated with continuing operations and $27 million with discontinued operations. Excluding these two items, Regions income from continuing operations available to common shareholders was $211 million, or $0.17 per diluted common share in 2011. See Table 2 GAAP to non GAAP Reconciliation. Regions results reflected higher net interest income, lower non interest expenses and a significant decline in its provision for loan losses. These items were partially offset by lower non interest income. NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis increased approximately $24 million, or 1 percent in 2011, from 2010 despite a 5 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $117.5 billion in 2010 to $112.2 billion in 2011. The increase in net interest income was sufficient to offset the impact of the smaller balance sheet, and resulted in the net interest margin increasing to 3.07 percent in 2011 from 2.91 percent in 2010. Comparing 2011 to 2010, interest earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 34 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 19 basis points to 2.78 percent in 2011 compared to 2.59 percent in 2010. Continued low levels of long term interest rates affected interest earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable rate and fixed rate loans and securities. Longer term rates were impacted by Federal Reserve actions which in effect lowered long term interest rates. The yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 3.74 percent to a low of 1.72 percent, and for the year decreased 142 basis points, ending the year at 1.88 percent. Persistently low long term rates can incent 65 Table of Contents fixed rate borrowers to accelerate reductions or prepayments of existing loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed rate loans. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed rate exposure, for example, decreased in yield from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The negative influence of low, long term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal funds rate and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2011, essentially unchanged from the previous year end level. The Companys loan pricing is also influenced by the 30 day London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR), which, on average, was 4 basis points lower in 2011 than 2010, but ranged from a high of 0.30 percent to a low of 0.19 percent during 2011 and ended the year at 0.30 percent. The 2 year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield is a driver of deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, and it also remained low in 2011. The yield on the benchmark 2 year U.S. Treasury note ranged from a high of 0.85 percent to a low of 0.16 percent, and for the year decreased 36 basis points, ending the year at 0.24 percent. With short term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.43 percent to 0.29 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $26.3 billion, or 27.2 percent of total average deposits, in 2010 to $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011. Meanwhile, average non interest bearing customer deposits increased from $24.0 billion in 2010 to $27.7 billion in 2011. 66 Table of Contents Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations presents a detail of net interest income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 2011 2010 2009 AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate AverageBalance Income/Expense Yield/Rate Assets (Dollars in millions; yields on taxable equivalent basis) Interest earning assets: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ 4 $ % $ 377 $ 2 0.53 % $ 124 $ % Trading account assets 166 4 2.41 175 7 4.00 506 25 4.94 Securities: Taxable 24,586 758 3.08 23,851 873 3.66 20,218 966 4.78 Tax exempt 31 44 1 2.27 460 29 6.30 Loans held for sale 1,131 35 3.09 1,281 39 3.04 1,655 55 3.32 Loans, net of unearned income (1) (2) 80,673 3,477 4.31 86,660 3,734 4.31 94,523 4,218 4.46 Other interest earning assets 5,623 13 0.23 5,119 13 0.25 6,499 16 0.25 Total interest earning assets 112,214 4,287 3.82 117,507 4,669 3.97 123,985 5,309 4.28 Allowance for loan losses (3,114 ) (3,187 ) (2,240 ) Cash and due from banks 1,988 2,021 2,213 Other non earning assets 15,631 16,379 15,510 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Interest bearing liabilities: Savings accounts $ 5,062 5 0.10 $ 4,459 4 0.09 $ 3,984 5 0.13 Interest bearing transaction accounts 15,613 27 0.17 14,404 32 0.22 14,347 40 0.28 Money market accounts 25,142 72 0.29 26,753 116 0.43 21,434 181 0.84 Money market accounts foreign 467 1 0.21 601 1 0.17 1,139 3 0.26 Time deposits customer 21,635 367 1.70 26,236 601 2.29 32,617 1,045 3.20 Total customer deposits interest bearing (4) 67,919 472 0.69 72,453 754 1.04 73,521 1,274 1.73 Time deposits non customer 11 54 1 1.85 122 2 1.64 Other foreign deposits 312 1 0.32 Total treasury deposits interest bearing 11 54 1 1.85 434 3 0.69 Total interest bearing deposits 67,930 472 0.69 72,507 755 1.04 73,955 1,277 1.73 Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,801 (1 ) (0.06 ) 1,983 3 0.15 2,661 8 0.30 Other short term borrowings 186 331 1 0.30 4,600 36 0.78 Long term borrowings 11,240 371 3.30 15,489 489 3.16 18,501 663 3.58 Total interest bearing liabilities 81,157 842 1.04 90,310 1,248 1.38 99,717 1,984 1.99 Net interest spread 2.78 2.59 2.29 Customer deposits non interest bearing (4) 27,741 23,982 20,657 Other liabilities 2,471 2,512 2,870 Stockholders equity 15,350 15,916 16,224 $ 126,719 $ 132,720 $ 139,468 Net interest income/margin on a taxable equivalent basis from continuingoperations (3)(5) $ 3,445 3.07 % $ 3,421 2.91 % $ 3,325 2.68 % (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non accrual loans for all periods presented. (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $50 million, $37 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest bearing deposits and non interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.49%, 0.78% and 1.35% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,476 million and 3.05%, $3,464 million and 2.90% and $3,367 million and 2.67% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations 2011 Compared to 2010 2010 Compared to 2009 Change Due to Change Due to Volume Yield/Rate Net Volume Yield/Rate Net (Taxable equivalent basis in millions) Interest income on: Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 2 $ 2 Trading account assets (3 ) (3 ) (14 ) (4 ) (18 ) Securities: Taxable 26 (141 ) (115 ) 156 (249 ) (93 ) Tax exempt (1 ) (1 ) (16 ) (12 ) (28 ) Loans held for sale (5 ) 1 (4 ) (12 ) (4 ) (16 ) Loans, net of unearned income (258 ) 1 (257 ) (342 ) (142 ) (484 ) Other interest earning assets 1 (1 ) (4 ) 1 (3 ) Total interest earning assets (237 ) (145 ) (382 ) (232 ) (408 ) (640 ) Interest expense on: Savings accounts 1 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) Interest bearing transaction accounts 3 (8 ) (5 ) (8 ) (8 ) Money market accounts domestic (7 ) (37 ) (44 ) 38 (103 ) (65 ) Money market accounts foreign (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) Time deposits customer (95 ) (139 ) (234 ) (181 ) (263 ) (444 ) Total customer deposits interest bearing (98 ) (184 ) (282 ) (143 ) (377 ) (520 ) Time deposits non customer (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Other foreign deposits (1 ) (1 ) Total treasury deposits interest bearing (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) (2 ) Total interest bearing deposits (98 ) (185 ) (283 ) (145 ) (377 ) (522 ) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Other short term borrowings (1 ) (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) (35 ) Long term borrowings (140 ) 22 (118 ) (101 ) (73 ) (174 ) Total interest bearing liabilities (238 ) (168 ) (406 ) (269 ) (467 ) (736 ) Increase in net interest income $ 1 $ 23 $ 24 $ 37 $ 59 $ 96 Notes: 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 2. The computation of taxable equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35 percent, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Net interest income and interest rate spread are also affected by the actions taken to manage interest rate risk. As described in the Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A, Regions employs multiple tools in order to manage the risk of variability in net interest income attributable to changes in interest rates. Among these tools are interest rate derivatives. In 2011, net interest income attributable to interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes was $362 million versus $515 million in 2010. 68 Table of Contents The mix of interest earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions primary types of interest earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and a high level of loans on non accrual status. Average interest earning assets at December 31, 2011 totaled $112.2 billion, a decrease of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, or 5 percent. While average earning assets declined during 2011, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances on average and a decline in average loans due to decreased loan demand, consumers deleveraging and run off of investor real estate. Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest bearing deposits in other banks (included in other interest earning assets in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Companys liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The higher levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 13 basis points in 2011 and 12 basis points in 2010. In addition, elevated levels of non performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 14 basis points in 2011 compared to 17 basis points in 2010. Average loans as a percentage of average interest earning assets were 73 percent in 2011 and 75 percent in 2010. The categories, which consist of interest earning assets, are shown in Table 3 Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations. The proportion of average interest earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of managements efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest earning vehicles and represented 89 percent in both 2011 and 2010. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2011 was in interest earning assets. Funding for Regions interest earning assets comes from interest bearing and non interest bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest earning assets funded by interest bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest earning assets funded by average interest bearing liabilities was 72 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2010, also affected by the aforementioned increase in deposits in other banks. Table 4 Volume and Yield/Rate Variances for Continuing Operations provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in managements judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011, the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion and net charge offs were $2.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion and net charge offs of $2.8 billion in 2010. Net charge offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the Risk Management section found later in this report. See also Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. NON INTEREST INCOME Non interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest earning assets. Table 5 Non Interest Income for Continuing Operations provides a detail of the components of non interest income from continuing operations. Non interest income totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The decrease in non interest income is primarily due to a decrease in securities gains and leveraged lease termination gains. Excluding these two items, non interest income was essentially stable compared to 2010. 69 Table of Contents Table 5 Non Interest Income from Continuing Operations Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 1,168 $1,174 $1,156 Capital markets and investment income 64 69 39 Mortgage income 220 247 259 Trust department income 199 196 191 Securities gains, net 112 394 69 Insurance commissions and fees 106 104 105 Leveraged lease termination gains 8 78 587 Commercial credit fee income 80 76 70 Bank owned life insurance 83 88 74 Net revenue (loss) from affordable housing (69 ) (72 ) (53 ) Visa related gains 80 Other miscellaneous income 172 135 188 $ 2,143 $2,489 $2,765 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee eligible and a higher level of customer transactions. Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserves rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd Frank Act effective October 1, 2011. The final proposal included an allowable interchange fee of 21 cents per transaction plus a 5 basis points allowance for fraud mitigation expenses, which was higher than the original proposal, but below the 44 cents per transaction which was the average amount charged for debit transactions according to the Federal Reserves study on interchange transactions. Total revenues from debit card income at Regions were $335 million in 2011, which included one full quarter under the final rules. Based on the final ruling, the Company estimates that the reduction to annual debit interchange revenue will be approximately $180 million before any mitigation efforts. However, the Company believes it will be able to mitigate this impact over time through fee changes, introduction of new products and services and expense management. Capital Markets, Investment and Trust Department Income Total capital markets and investment income decreased 7 percent to $64 million in 2011 from $69 million in 2010. Trust department income increased 2 percent to $199 million in 2011, driven by a higher amount of fees from commissions. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.1 billion at year end 2011 compared to approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $27 million or 11 percent to $220 million in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by lower benefit from mortgage servicing 70 Table of Contents rights and related derivatives which added $16 million of non interest income in 2010 compared to a $22 million loss in 2011. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Mortgage originations were higher in 2010 due to more refinancing activity. In 2010, refinancing encompassed 62 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011. Effective January 1, 2009, Regions made an election to prospectively change the policy for accounting for residential mortgage servicing rights from the amortization method to the fair value measurement method. Under the fair value measurement method, servicing assets are measured at fair value each period with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income. Regions uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the effect of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company also began using trading assets to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights. Because changes in value of trading assets are reported in capital markets and investment income, and because earnings on these assets are reported in net interest income, the total effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging instruments impacts several line items in the statements of operations. See Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. At December 31, 2011, Regions servicing portfolio totaled $41.1 billion, $26.7 billion of which was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2010, the servicing portfolio totaled $41.7 billion, $26.0 billion of which was serviced for third parties. Securities Gains, Net Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, as compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Companys gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion of securities to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration on the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were primarily reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. Refer to the Securities section in the Balance Sheet Analysis for further discussion. Leveraged Lease Termination Gains A 2008 settlement with the Internal Revenue Service negatively impacted the economics of Regions leveraged lease portfolio. In addition, there was a mutual desire with lessees to terminate certain leases within this portfolio. Accordingly, the Company decided to terminate certain of these leases in 2011 and 2010, resulting in gains of $8 million and $78 million, respectively. However, the 2010 gains were essentially offset by related income tax expense of $74 million, resulting in a minimal impact to net income. There was no material impact to income tax expense related to the 2011 gains. Bank Owned Life Insurance Bank owned life insurance income decreased 6 percent to $83 million in 2011, compared to $88 million in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income increased $37 million to $172 million in 2011. The largest component of the increase was credit card income which totaled $31 million in 2011 with no impact in 2010. In June 2011, Regions purchased approximately $1.1 billion of Regions branded credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. 71 Table of Contents NON INTEREST EXPENSE The following section contains a discussion of non interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non interest expense in 2011 totaled $3.9 billion and included a goodwill impairment charge of $253 million. In 2010, non interest expense totaled $3.9 billion and included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense excluding the goodwill impairment and regulatory charges (non GAAP) decreased $175 million, or 5 percent, to $3.6 billion in 2011. Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) presents major non interest expense components, both including and excluding the regulatory charge and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Management believes the inclusion of non GAAP financial measures in Table 6 is useful in the evaluation of trends in non interest expense. See the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion of non GAAP financial measures. 72 Table of Contents Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) As Reported (GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,862 $ 3,859 $ 3,785 Regulatory Charge andGoodwill Impairment Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ $ $ Net occupancy expense Furniture and equipment expense Professional and legal fees Amortization of core deposit intangibles Other real estate owned expense Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges Other than temporary impairments FDIC premiums Loss on early extinguishment of debt Regulatory charge 75 Goodwill impairment 253 Other miscellaneous expenses $ 253 $ 75 $ As Adjusted (Non GAAP) Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Salaries and employee benefits $ 1,604 $ 1,640 $ 1,635 Net occupancy expense 388 411 422 Furniture and equipment expense 275 277 281 Professional and legal fees 175 170 167 Amortization of core deposit intangibles 95 107 120 Other real estate owned expense 162 209 175 Branch consolidation and property and equipment charges 75 Other than temporary impairments 2 2 75 FDIC premiums 217 220 227 Loss on early extinguishment of debt 108 Regulatory charge Goodwill impairment Other miscellaneous expenses 616 640 683 $ 3,609 $ 3,784 $ 3,785 73 Table of Contents Salaries and Employee Benefits Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $36 million, or 2 percent, in 2011. The year over year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost was primarily due to lower headcount and lower pension costs. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 26,813 employees compared to 27,829 at December 31, 2010. Excluding Morgan Keegan associates, there were 23,707 and 24,656 employees at the end of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans to the consolidated financial statements for further details. There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions long term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 Share Based Payments to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Net Occupancy Expense Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $23 million, or 6 percent, in 2011. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidation that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 1,726 branches compared to 1,772 at December 31, 2010. In 2011, Regions eliminated approximately 700,000 square feet of excess facilities space. Furniture and Equipment Expense Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by 1 percent to $275 million in 2011 primarily driven by branch consolidations. Professional and Legal Fees Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting a 3 percent increase in the level of legal expenses and credit related legal costs in 2011. Refer to Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 11 percent to $95 million in 2011 compared to $107 million in 2010. Other Real Estate Owned Expense Other real estate owned (OREO) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011. This reduction in OREO balances, along with lower valuation charges, was the primary driver of the $47 million decline in OREO expense in 2011. See the Foreclosed Properties section later in the Balance Sheet Analysis. 74 Table of Contents Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges Non interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches. Regions expects to realize future net cost savings of approximately $19 million on an annual basis as a result of the consolidations. FDIC Premiums FDIC premiums decreased in 2011 by $3 million to $217 million. FDIC premiums were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining FDIC insurance premiums. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Companys asset/liability management process. Regulatory Charge During the second quarter of 2010, the SEC, a joint state task force of state securities regulators and FINRA announced that they were commencing administrative proceedings against Morgan Keegan, Morgan Asset Management and certain of their employees for violations of federal and state securities laws and NASD rules relating to certain mutual funds previously administered by Morgan Keegan and Morgan Asset Management. Based on the status of settlement negotiations, Regions concluded that a loss on the matter was probable and reasonably estimable. Accordingly, at June 30, 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge representing the estimate of probable loss. Of this amount, $75 million was from continuing operations and $125 million was from discontinued operations. The charges were settled during the second quarter of 2011. Goodwill Impairment As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions 2011 results include a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Other Miscellaneous Expenses Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $24 million to $616 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs. 75 Table of Contents INCOME TAXES The Companys income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre tax earnings and the goodwill impairment. The Companys effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank owned life insurance and tax exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period. For 2011, the Company recorded an income tax benefit from discontinued operations of $4 million. In 2011, a regulatory settlement was finalized and a portion was determined to be deductible for income tax purposes. This settlement resulted in a $27 million income tax benefit to discontinued operations. In addition, the $492 million goodwill impairment reflected in 2011 discontinued operations resulted in a $14 million income tax benefit. The 2010 regulatory charge of $125 million reflected in discontinued operations was considered to be non deductible at the time of the accrual. At December 31, 2011, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $1.3 billion. Of this amount, $857 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $429 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $429 million, $87 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2024. Additional details related to tax carryforwards, including more information regarding the expiration of various categories of carryforwards, is included in Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements. Managements determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of positive and negative evidence impacting taxable income are summarized below. Positive Evidence History of earnings The Company has a strong history of generating earnings and has demonstrated positive earnings in 16 of the last 20 years. Absent the goodwill impairments during 2011 and 2008, which had limited impact on taxable net income reported on the Companys tax returns, the Company would have generated positive earnings during these years leaving only 2009 and 2010 in loss positions. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses and a portion of the federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused. Reversals of taxable temporary differences The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination can absorb up to approximately $850 million of deferred tax assets. Creation of future taxable income At December 31, 2011, the Company utilized all taxable income in prior carryback years. The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre tax earnings and adjusts for book tax 76 Table of Contents differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax exempt interest income and bank owned life insurance, as well as temporary book tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used from the Companys financial forecasting process. Strong capital position At December 31, 2011, the Company had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.28 percent, substantially above the 6.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. Also, the Total capital ratio of 16.99 percent substantially exceeds the 10.0 percent minimum standard to be well capitalized. The Companys Tier 1 common ratio (non GAAP) was 8.5 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed 5 percent as the level of Tier 1 common capital sufficient to withstand adverse economic scenarios. Ability to implement tax planning strategies The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2011, the Companys portfolio of securities available for sale had $532 million of gross unrealized pre tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized. Negative Evidence Cumulative loss position The Company is currently in a three year cumulative loss position. Excluding the goodwill impairment in 2011 and a portion of the regulatory charge taken in 2010, as these items are nondeductible for income tax purposes, the cumulative continuing operations pre tax loss position for 2009 through 2011 is $1.7 billion. The cumulative loss has resulted from the unprecedented provision for loan losses of $7.9 billion during these periods, which management believes will continue to be reduced in future periods. During 2011, the provision for loan losses decreased $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion, as compared to the provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Additionally, absent the goodwill impairment, Regions would have reported positive net income available to common shareholders for 2011, providing positive evidence regarding the Companys earnings. The Company believes the positive evidence, when considered in its entirety, outweighs the negative evidence of recent pre tax losses. See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS At December 31, 2011, Regions reported total assets of $127.1 billion compared to $132.4 billion at the end of 2010, a decrease of approximately $5.3 billion or 4 percent. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $5.3 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate segment. Goodwill declined between years as a result of the goodwill impairment recognized in the Investment/Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment related to the process of selling Morgan Keegan as further discussed in Note 9 Intangible Assets. Other assets also declined between years due to variations in settlements of securities sales. Offsetting these declines was an approximate $1.2 billion increase in securities available for sale. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2011, these assets totaled $7.2 billion as compared to 77 Table of Contents $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was primarily driven by an increase in cash and due from banks slightly offset by a decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Trading Account Assets Trading account assets increased $150 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The trading account assets are primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 Trading Account Assets December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) Trading account assets: U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities $ 624 $ 370 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 240 355 Other securities 402 391 $ 1,266 $ 1,116 Securities Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high quality mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Securities represented 19 percent of total assets at December 31, 2011 compared to 18 percent at December 31, 2010. In 2011, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.2 billion, or 5 percent. The Market Risk Interest Rate Risk section, found later in this report, further explains Regions interest rate risk management practices. The weighted average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.91 percent in 2011 and 3.42 percent in 2010. Table 8 Securities illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category. Table 8 Securities December 31 2011 2010 (In millions) U.S. Treasury securities $ 102 $ 96 Federal agency securities 150 21 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 36 30 Mortgage backed securities: Residential agency 22,184 21,857 Residential non agency 16 22 Commercial agency 326 112 Commercial non agency 321 100 Corporate and other debt securities 537 27 Equity securities 815 1,048 $ 24,487 $ 23,313 78 Table of Contents In conjunction with the Companys asset/liability management process, during 2011, Regions sold agency securities available for sale and reinvested the proceeds predominantly into similar securities with shorter durations. Additionally, during the second half of 2011, Regions purchased approximately $493 million of corporate bonds in an effort to increase diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce exposure to mortgage refinance risk through a sector that has an attractive risk and return profile. During 2011, Regions sold approximately $7.9 billion of securities and recognized approximately $112 million in net gains. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2010, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $120 million, comprised of $283 million in gross unrealized gains and $163 million in gross unrealized losses. The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other than temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before its market value recovers. During 2011, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity securities. During 2010, Regions recognized in earnings approximately $2 million of securities impairments, related to equity and other debt securities. See Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Maturity Analysis The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2011 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 6.6 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2010. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities provides additional details. Table 9 Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted Average Yields for Securities Securities Maturing as of December 31, 2011 WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years After FiveBut WithinTen Years AfterTen Years Total (Dollars in millions) Securities: U.S. Treasury securities $ 59 $ 39 $ 3 $ 1 $ 102 Federal agency securities 3 139 5 3 150 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 2 6 6 22 36 Mortgage backed securities Residential agency 3 70 1,414 20,697 22,184 Residential non agency 16 16 Commercial agency 57 269 326 Commercial non agency 35 46 240 321 Corporate and other debt securities 6 123 309 99 537 $ 73 $ 412 $ 1,840 $ 21,347 $ 23,672 Weighted average yield 0.40 % 2.89 % 2.99 % 2.91 % 2.91 % Notes: 1. The weighted average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35 percent. Taxable equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2011. Yields on tax exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax exempt obligations. 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above. 79 Table of Contents Portfolio Quality Regions investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 97 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2011. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented less than 3 percent of total securities at year end 2011. Loans Held for Sale At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2010, loans held for sale totaled $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $304 million of non performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 74 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans). Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, sales of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending as well as the purchase of Regions branded credit card loans during the second quarter of 2011. Table 10 illustrates a year over year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities. 80 Table of Contents Table 10 Loan Portfolio 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, net of unearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 24,522 $ 22,540 $ 21,547 $ 23,596 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 11,166 12,046 12,054 11,722 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 337 470 751 1,605 Total commercial 36,025 35,056 34,352 36,923 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 9,702 13,621 16,109 14,486 Commercial investor real estate construction 1,025 2,287 5,591 9,029 Total investor real estate 10,727 15,908 21,700 23,515 Residential first mortgage 13,784 14,898 15,632 15,839 Home equity 13,021 14,226 15,381 16,130 Indirect 1,848 1,592 2,452 3,854 Consumer credit card 987 Other consumer 1,202 1,184 1,157 1,158 Total consumer 30,842 31,900 34,622 36,981 $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 2007 (In millions, net ofunearned income) Commercial and industrial $ 20,907 Commercial real estate (1) 23,107 Commercial real estate construction (1) 13,302 Residential first mortgage 16,960 Home equity 14,962 Indirect 3,938 Other consumer 2,203 $ 95,379 (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 81 Table of Contents Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities Loans Maturing as of December 31, 2011 (2) WithinOne Year After OneBut WithinFive Years AfterFiveYears Total (In millions) Commercial and industrial (1) $ 5,511 $ 14,613 $ 4,269 $ 24,393 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 1,965 5,913 3,288 11,166 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 39 126 172 337 Total commercial 7,515 20,652 7,729 35,896 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 4,811 4,253 638 9,702 Commercial investor real estate construction 605 396 24 1,025 Total investor real estate 5,416 4,649 662 10,727 $ 12,931 $ 25,301 $ 8,391 $ 46,623 PredeterminedRate VariableRate (In millions) Due after one year but within five years $ 5,894 $ 19,407 Due after five years 4,087 4,304 $ 9,981 $ 23,711 (1) Excludes $129 million of small business credit card accounts. (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans. The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2010 year end. See Note 5 Loans and Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial also includes owner occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. Owner occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2011, total commercial loan balances increased $969 million, or 3 percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups. Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single family and condominium loans) within Regions markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $5.2 billion from 2010 balances primarily due to strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate in response to credit risk and economic pressure. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $13.8 billion in 82 Table of Contents 2011, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volume reflecting decreased refinance activity in 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. Refer to Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Home Equity Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrowers residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. During 2011, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $13.0 billion, driven by the continued general decline in demand and lower property valuations across the Companys operating footprint. During 2011, credit quality within the home equity portfolio continued to reflect pressure, but total charge offs during 2011 decreased as compared to 2010. However, losses in Florida based credits where the collateral is a second lien remained at elevated levels, as unemployment levels remain high and property valuations in certain markets have continued to experience ongoing deterioration. More information related to these developments is included in the Home Equity discussion below. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $256 million, or 16 percent in 2011, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re entry into the indirect auto lending business. Consumer Credit Card During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011, relatively unchanged from the prior year. CREDIT QUALITY Weak economic conditions, including declining property values and high levels of unemployment, impacted the credit quality of Regions loan portfolio. Investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien see Table 14) carry a higher risk of non collection than many other loans. The following chart presents details of Regions $10.7 billion investor real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in billions): LAND, SINGLE FAMILY AND CONDOMINIUM Credit quality of the investor real estate portfolio segment is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. Certain components of the investor real estate portfolio segment carry a higher risk of non collection. While losses within these loan types were influenced by conditions described above, the most significant drivers of losses were the continued decline in demand for residential real estate and in the value of property. The land, single family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio segment are particularly affected by these risks and conditions. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents credit metrics for land, single family and condominium loans: Table 12 Land, Single family and Condominium December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Land Loan balance $ 857 $ 1,640 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 1 Non accruing loans* 203 476 Non accruing %* 23.7 % 29.0 % Single family Loan balance $ 816 $ 1,236 Accruing loans 90 days past due 2 3 Non accruing loans* 133 290 Non accruing %* 16.3 % 23.5 % Condominium Loan balance $ 151 $ 308 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 36 92 Non accruing %* 23.8 % 29.9 % *Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. Regions has reduced exposures in these product types through pro active workouts, appropriate charge offs, and asset dispositions. MULTI FAMILY AND RETAIL In recent years, loans within the multi family and retail components of the investor real estate portfolio segment experienced increased pressure. Continued weak economic conditions impacted demand for products and services in these sectors. Lower demand impacted cash flows generated by these properties, leading to a higher rate of non collection for these types of loans. The following table presents credit metrics for multi family and retail loans: Table 13 Multi family and Retail December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions, net ofunearned income) Multi family Loan balance $ 2,643 $ 4,241 Accruing loans 90 days past due 7 1 Non accruing loans* 131 239 Non accruing %* 5.0 % 5.6 % Retail Loan balance $ 2,223 $ 3,099 Accruing loans 90 days past due 1 Non accruing loans* 151 177 Non accruing %* 6.8 % 5.7 % * Excludes non accruing loans held for sale. 84 Table of Contents Strategic reductions in investor real estate exposures as discussed above, related to land, single family and condominium loans also drove the year over year decreases in multi family and retail loans. Asset dispositions as referred to under the discussion of land, single family and condominium, as well as multi family and retail, may occur in several forms. Typical transactions are instances where a third party guarantor pays off a note at a discounted price or an actual sale of the note. Regions sells to strategic buyers (e.g., local developers or the note guarantor) interested in the underlying collateral who may be willing to pay more for a note or rights to collateral backing a note than other market participants. Regions has also sold loans to financial buyers such as distressed debt funds. In addition to note sales, Regions may also allow the borrower to sell the underlying collateral, apply the proceeds to the note, and charge off the remaining balance. Regions does not sell loans, foreclosed properties or other problem assets to structured entities or other entities where Regions has an ownership interest. HOME EQUITY The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio: Table 14 Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information Year Ended December 31, 2011 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 1,973 $ 2,786 $ 4,759 $ 3,912 $ 4,350 $ 8,262 $ 5,885 $ 7,136 $ 13,021 Net Charge offs 45 177 222 30 77 107 75 254 329 Net Charge off % (1) 2.21 % 5.96 % 4.44 % 0.75 % 1.67 % 1.24 % 1.24 % 3.35 % 2.41 % Year Ended December 31, 2010 Florida All Other States Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total 1st Lien 2nd Lien Total (Dollars in millions) Balance $ 2,074 $ 3,167 $ 5,241 $ 4,139 $ 4,846 $ 8,985 $ 6,213 $ 8,013 $ 14,226 Net Charge offs 56 237 293 34 87 121 90 324 414 Net Charge off % (1) 2.66 % 7.12 % 5.38 % 0.80 % 1.71 % 1.30 % 1.42 % 3.85 % 2.80 % (1) Net charge off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances. Net charge offs were an annualized 2.41 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to an annualized 2.80 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses in Florida based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge off percentage did decrease to 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 5.38 percent for the year ended December 31, 2010. Home equity losses have decreased during 2011 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Of the $13.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2011, approximately $11.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year 85 Table of Contents repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term balloon payment means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, none of Regions home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The vast majority of home equity lines of credit will convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020. Of the $11.6 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 54 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $537 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option. Regions home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio. Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge off. OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (current LTV). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Companys footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. The balances in the Above 100% category have increased between December 31, 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued declines in residential real estate values. 86 Table of Contents Table 15 Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity ResidentialFirst Mortgage HomeEquity (In millions) Estimated current loan to value: Above 100% $ 1,854 $ 2,157 $ 1,515 $ 1,839 80% 100% 2,951 2,568 2,746 2,775 Below 80% 8,483 7,180 10,044 8,261 Data not available 496 1,116 593 1,351 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. For purposes of the table above, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the Above 100% category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved from approximately 9.8 percent at December 31, 2010 to approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011. Table 16 Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges December 31, 2011 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,449 $ 873 $ 191 $ 56 $ 106 620 680 1,286 1,157 281 129 142 681 720 1,557 1,559 274 236 162 Above 720 8,441 8,576 858 561 383 Data not available 1,051 856 244 5 409 $ 13,784 $ 13,021 $ 1,848 $ 987 $ 1,202 December 31, 2010 Residential FirstMortgage Home Equity Indirect ConsumerCredit Card OtherConsumer (In millions) Below 620 $ 1,751 $ 1,115 $ 191 $ $ 128 620 680 1,518 1,242 198 145 681 720 1,822 1,687 197 162 Above 720 6,925 9,368 775 406 Data not available 2,882 814 231 343 $ 14,898 $ 14,226 $ 1,592 $ $ 1,184 87 Table of Contents Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both these components. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion or 3.64 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $3.3 billion or 3.93 percent at year end 2010. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Credit Risk section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance. 88 Table of Contents Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows: Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 $ 1,321 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 294 429 384 235 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 248 225 89 60 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 25 19 12 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 685 879 590 328 Commercial investor real estate construction 195 565 488 556 Residential first mortgage 220 240 206 83 Home equity 353 432 442 243 Indirect 23 34 68 56 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 68 83 83 66 2,107 2,912 2,369 1,639 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 36 33 28 26 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 14 11 6 5 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 1 2 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 27 14 8 4 Commercial investor real estate construction 6 10 4 3 Residential first mortgage 3 2 4 2 Home equity 25 18 27 17 Indirect 10 15 21 15 Other consumer 16 16 17 18 137 120 116 92 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 258 396 356 209 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 234 214 83 55 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 8 24 18 10 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 658 865 582 324 Commercial investor real estate construction 189 555 484 553 Residential first mortgage 217 238 202 81 Home equity 328 414 415 226 Indirect 13 19 47 41 Consumer credit card 13 Other consumer 52 67 66 48 1,970 2,792 2,253 1,547 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (5 ) Provision for loan losses 1,530 2,863 3,541 2,057 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 2,745 $ 3,185 $ 3,114 $ 1,826 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 $ 58 Provision (credit) for unfunded credit commitments 7 (3 ) 16 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 78 $ 71 $ 74 $ 74 Allowance for credit losses $ 2,823 $ 3,256 $ 3,188 $ 1,900 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 77,594 $ 82,864 $ 90,674 $ 97,419 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 80,673 $ 86,660 $ 94,523 $ 97,601 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 3.54 % 3.84 % 3.43 % 1.87 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.16x 1.01x 0.89x 1.74x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 2.44 % 3.22 % 2.38 % 1.59 % Provision for loan losses 128.8 97.5 63.6 75.2 89 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Allowance for loan losses at January 1 $ 1,056 Loans charged off: Commercial and industrial 103 Commercial real estate (1) 39 Construction 33 Residential first mortgage 20 Home equity 54 Indirect 36 Other consumer 83 368 Recoveries of loans previously charged off: Commercial and industrial 30 Commercial real estate (1) 9 Construction 2 Residential first mortgage 1 Home equity 13 Indirect 16 Other consumer 26 97 Net charge offs: Commercial and industrial 73 Commercial real estate (1) 30 Construction 31 Residential first mortgage 19 Home equity 41 Indirect 20 Other consumer 57 271 Allowance allocated to sold loans and loans transferred to loans held for sale (19 ) Provision for loan losses from continuing operations 555 Allowance for loan losses at December 31 $ 1,321 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at January 1 $ 52 Provision for unfunded credit commitments 6 Reserve for unfunded credit commitments at December 31 $ 58 Allowance for credit losses $ 1,379 Loans, net of unearned income, outstanding at end of period $ 95,379 Average loans, net of unearned income outstanding for the period $ 94,372 Ratios: Allowance for loan losses at end of period to loans, net of unearned income 1.39 % Allowance for loan losses at end of period to non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 1.78x Net charge offs as percentage of: Average loans, net of unearned income 0.29 % Provision for loan losses 48.8 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 90 Table of Contents Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates that net loan charge offs will decrease in 2012, but continue at an elevated level for the near future. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge offs and provision for loan losses. Regions recorded an allowance for loan losses and related premium of approximately $84 million related to its purchase of credit card accounts during the second quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Regions reclassified the $84 million allowance and premium as an adjustment to the basis of the loans. The impact of these reclassification entries was not material to the consolidated financial statements. Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AllocationAmount % ofTotal AmountAllocation % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 586 21.3 % $ 641 20.1 % $ 638 20.5 % $ 466 25.5 % Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 427 15.6 395 12.4 328 10.5 172 9.4 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 17 0.6 19 0.6 37 1.2 48 2.6 Total commercial 1,030 37.5 1,055 33.1 1,003 32.2 686 37.5 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 784 28.6 1,030 32.3 929 29.8 403 22.1 Commercial investor real estate construction 207 7.5 340 10.7 536 17.2 369 20.2 Total investor real estate 991 36.1 1,370 43.0 1,465 47.0 772 42.3 Residential first mortgage 282 10.3 295 9.3 213 6.9 87 4.8 Home equity 356 13.0 414 13.0 374 12.0 235 12.9 Indirect 17 0.6 17 0.5 26 0.8 28 1.5 Consumer credit card 37 1.3 Other consumer 32 1.2 34 1.1 33 1.1 18 1.0 $ 2,745 100.0 % $ 3,185 100.0 % $ 3,114 100.0 % $ 1,826 100.0 % 2007 AllocationAmount % ofTotal (Dollars in millions) Commercial and industrial $ 295 22.3 % Commercial real estate (1) 411 31.1 Construction (1) 348 26.4 Residential first mortgage 89 6.7 Home equity 95 7.2 Indirect 52 3.9 Other consumer 31 2.4 $ 1,321 100.0 % (1) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories is not available for periods prior to 2008. 91 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (CAP). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting guidance that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 Allowance For Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to identification of TDRs, including the impact of new accounting literature adopted during 2011, loans modified in a TDR during the period and the financial impact of those modifications, and loans which defaulted during the period which were modified in a TDR during the previous twelve months. The following table summarizes TDRs: Table 19 Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses LoanBalance Allowance forCredit Losses (In millions) Accruing: Commercial $ 492 $ 89 $ 77 $ 5 Investor real estate 995 254 192 4 Residential first mortgage 900 132 813 97 Home equity 407 57 335 42 Other consumer 56 1 66 1 2,850 533 1,483 149 Non accrual status or 90 days past due: Commercial 353 100 105 23 Investor real estate 473 146 198 20 Residential first mortgage 210 31 240 28 Home equity 33 5 30 4 1,069 282 573 75 $ 3,919 $ 815 $ 2,056 $ 224 Notes: (1) All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. (2) Net charge offs on commercial TDRs were approximately $46 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on investor real estate TDRs were approximately $44 million and $63 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on residential first mortgage TDRs were approximately $103 million and $109 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net charge offs on home equity TDRs were approximately $41 million for the years endeds December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net charge offs on other consumer TDRs were approximately $6 million and $7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Non Performing Assets Non performing assets consist of loans on non accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows: Table 20 Non Performing Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 457 $ 467 $ 427 $ 176 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 590 606 560 157 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 25 29 50 26 Total commercial 1,072 1,102 1,037 359 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 734 1,265 1,203 292 Commercial investor real estate construction 180 452 1,067 273 Total investor real estate 914 1,717 2,270 565 Residential first mortgage 250 285 180 125 Home equity 136 56 1 3 Total non performing loans, excluding loans held for sale 2,372 3,160 3,488 1,052 Non performing loans held for sale 328 304 317 423 Total non performing loans (1) 2,700 3,464 3,805 1,475 Foreclosed properties 296 454 607 243 Total non performing assets (1) $ 2,996 $ 3,918 $ 4,412 $ 1,718 Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 28 $ 9 $ 24 $ 14 Commercial real estate mortgage owner occupied 9 6 16 9 Commercial real estate construction owner occupied 1 2 3 Total commercial 37 16 42 26 Commercial investor real estate mortgage 13 5 22 12 Commercial investor real estate construction 1 8 12 Total investor real estate 13 6 30 24 Residential first mortgage 284 359 361 275 Home equity 93 198 241 214 Indirect 2 2 6 8 Consumer credit card 14 Other consumer 4 4 8 7 $ 447 $ 585 $ 688 $ 554 Restructured loans not included in the categories above $ 2,850 $ 1,483 $ 1,608 $ 455 Non performing loans (1) to loans and non performing loans held forsale (2) 3.47 % 4.17 % 4.18 % 1.51 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, foreclosed properties and non performing loans held for sale (2) 3.83 % 4.69 % 4.82 % 1.75 % (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Beginning in 2011, non performing loans and assets ratios include non performing loans held for sale in the denominator, in addition to portfolio loans and foreclosed properties. Prior years have been revised to conform to current period presentation. 93 Table of Contents 2007 (In millions) Non performing loans: Commercial and industrial $ 92 Commercial real estate (2) 263 Construction (2) 310 Residential first mortgage 72 Home equity 7 Total non performing loans 744 Foreclosed properties 120 Total non performing assets (1) $ 864 Non performing loans (1) to loans 0.78 % Non performing assets (1) to loans, and foreclosed properties 0.90 % Accruing loans 90 days past due: Commercial and industrial $ 12 Commercial real estate (2) 12 Construction (2) 19 Residential first mortgage 155 Home equity 147 Indirect 6 Other consumer 6 $ 357 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Breakout of commercial real estate mortgage and construction between owner occupied and investor categories not available for periods prior to 2008. Non performing assets totaled $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non performing assets, totaled $296 million and $454 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The decrease in non performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2011 reflects the Companys efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non performing assets to decrease in 2012, but remain elevated as compared to historical levels. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non performing assets. Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $447 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease from $585 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, Regions had approximately $500 $600 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of loans that may migrate to non accrual status in the next quarter. In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrowers capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral 94 Table of Contents when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans. The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. The following table provides an analysis of non accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2011: Table 21 Analysis of Non Accrual Loans Non Accrual Loans, Excluding Loans Held for SaleYear Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial InvestorReal Estate Consumer (1) Total (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 1,102 $ 1,717 $ 341 $ 3,160 Additions 1,196 1,405 57 2,658 Net payments/other activity (376 ) (420 ) (796 ) Return to accrual (100 ) (124 ) (224 ) Charge offs on non accrual loans (2) (531 ) (776 ) (4 ) (1,311 ) Transfers to held for sale (3) (117 ) (644 ) (6 ) (767 ) Transfers to foreclosed properties (89 ) (145 ) (234 ) Sales (13 ) (99 ) (2 ) (114 ) Balance at end of year $ 1,072 $ 914 $ 386 $ 2,372 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non accrual loans. (2) Includes charge offs on loans on non accrual status and charge offs taken upon sale and transfer of non accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge offs of $513 million recorded upon transfer. For additional discussion, see Note 6 Allowance for Credit Losses to the consolidated financial statements. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2011 decreased $194 million to $2.4 billion compared to year end 2010. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense. 95 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $5.6 billion in 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Companys methodology for testing goodwill for impairment and the $745 million impairment charge taken during 2011. Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements, for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Additionally, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment. Mortgage Servicing Rights Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2011 totaled $182 million compared to $267 million at December 31, 2010. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 Servicing of Financial Assets to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors. Mortgage servicing rights are presented at fair value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and trading asset transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. However, derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. See the Mortgage Income section earlier in this report for detail regarding the effect of mortgage servicing rights and related hedging items on Regions consolidated statement of operations. Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $449 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $385 million at December 31, 2010. The year over year increase was due to the acquisition of Regions credit card portfolio that resulted in recognition of approximately $175 million of purchased credit card intangibles. This increase was partially offset by amortization of core deposit intangibles. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets during 2011 or 2010. See Note 9 Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Foreclosed Properties Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31: Table 22 Foreclosed Properties 2011 2010 (In millions) Balance at beginning of year $ 454 $ 607 Transfer from loans 532 649 Valuation adjustments (161 ) (225 ) Foreclosed property sold (518 ) (565 ) Payments and other (11 ) (12 ) (158 ) (153 ) Balance at end of year $ 296 $ 454 Note: Approximately 73 percent and 72 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relates to properties transferred in to foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year. 96 Table of Contents Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post foreclosure write downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold. Other Assets Other assets decreased $675 million to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2011. Securities sold but not yet settled near the end of 2010 primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred tax and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year over year decrease. The decreases were partially offset by increased derivative asset balances. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. Deposits are Regions primary source of funds, providing funding for 85 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2011 and 82 percent of average interest earning assets from continuing operations in 2010. Table 23 Deposits details year over year deposits on a period ending basis. Total deposits as of year end 2011 increased $1.0 billion, or 1 percent, compared to year end 2010. The overall increase in deposits was primarily driven by an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts and interest bearing transaction accounts. These increases were partially offset by decreases in domestic money market accounts and time deposits. Regions continues to manage and deepen existing customer relationships, as well as develop new relationships through client acquisition and new checking products. Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, increased by 1 percent to $95.6 billion on an ending basis during 2011. An increase in interest bearing transaction accounts was the main source of the increase, combined with an increase in non interest bearing demand accounts. A decrease in domestic money market accounts partially offset these increases. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010 and to 0.49 percent in 2011. Table 23 Deposits 2011 2010 2009 (In millions) Non interest bearing demand $ 28,266 $ 25,733 $ 23,204 Savings accounts 5,159 4,668 4,073 Interest bearing transaction accounts 19,388 13,423 15,791 Money market accounts domestic 23,053 27,420 23,291 Money market accounts foreign 378 569 766 Low cost deposits 76,244 71,813 67,125 Time deposits 19,378 22,784 31,468 Customer deposits 95,622 94,597 98,593 Corporate treasury time deposits 5 17 87 $ 95,627 $ 94,614 $ 98,680 97 Table of Contents Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Within customer deposits, non interest bearing demand deposits increased $2.5 billion to $28.3 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non interest bearing deposits accounted for approximately 30 percent of total deposits at year end 2011 as compared to 27 percent at year end 2010. Savings balances increased $491 million to $5.2 billion, generally reflecting continued savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions most significant funding sources. These balances decreased 16 percent in 2011 to $23 billion or 24 percent of total deposits, compared to 29 percent of total deposits in 2010. Money market accounts decreased in 2011 due to the product conversion to interest bearing transaction deposits. Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 15 percent in 2011 to $19.4 billion compared to $22.8 billion in 2010. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of a decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 20 percent of total deposits in 2011 compared to 24 percent in 2010. Consistent with 2010, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2011 as the Company continued to utilize customer based funding and other sources. The Companys choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Companys particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source. The sensitivity of Regions deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions average interest rate paid on interest bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest bearing deposits decreased to 0.69 percent in 2011 from 1.04 percent in 2010, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 24 Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 2011 2010 (In millions) Time deposits of $100,000 or more, maturing in: 3 months or less $ 1,216 $ 1,878 Over 3 through 6 months 1,504 1,396 Over 6 through 12 months 1,910 1,898 Over 12 months 3,061 3,679 $ 7,691 $ 8,851 98 Table of Contents Short Term Borrowings See Note 11 Short Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Short term borrowings totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Companys funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers activity. COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES Short term borrowings used as a source of funding for the company totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Short term FHLB advances were $500 million at December 31, 2010 and there were no such borrowings at December 31, 2011. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data provides selected information for certain short term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Table 25 Selected Short Term Borrowings Data 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Federal funds purchased: Balance at year end $ 18 $ 19 $ 30 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 19 68 441 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 22 106 2,011 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: Balance at year end $ 969 $ 763 $ 448 Average outstanding (based on average daily balances) 419 456 724 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 969 1,151 1,445 Weighted average interest rate at year end (0.2 )% 0.3 % 0.4 % Weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding during the year (based on average daily balances) (0.6 )% 0.2 % 0.9 % The negative weighted average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions entering into reverse repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates. CUSTOMER RELATED BORROWINGS Short term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The primary driver of this decrease was a $588 million decrease in repurchase agreements offered as commercial banking investment opportunities for customers. Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on 99 Table of Contents the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Banks investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customers perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day to day basis. Long Term Borrowings Regions long term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long term notes payable. Total long term borrowings decreased $5.1 billion to $8.1 billion at December 31, 2011. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $1.0 billion of subordinated notes. At the bank level, $2.0 billion of senior bank notes matured, which were originally issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). As of December 31, 2011, Regions had no remaining borrowings under the TLGP. Also at the bank level, approximately $1.8 billion of FHLB advances and $200 million of other long term debt matured during 2011. The weighted average interest rate on total long term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 3.3%, 3.2% and 3.6% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates. Ratings During 2011, both Standard & Poors (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) revised their outlook for Regions and Regions Bank to stable from negative. Also during 2011, S&P upgraded Regions junior subordinated notes to B+ from B. As of December 31, 2011, S&P and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation were below investment grade. For Regions Bank, Moodys credit ratings were below investment grade. Also, Moodys and Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS) continue to have negative outlooks for Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. Table 26 Credit Ratings reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Table 26 Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2011 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B+ B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP (1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2011 Stable Negative (2) Stable Negative (1) Not Prime (2) On February 14, 2012, Moodys revised outlook to stable. 100 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 Standard& Poors Moodys Fitch DBRS Regions Financial Corporation Senior notes BB+ Ba3 BBB BBB Subordinated notes BB B1 BB+ BBBL Junior subordinated notes B B2 BB BBBL Regions Bank Short term debt A 3 NP(1) F3 R 2H Long term bank deposits BBB Ba1 BBB BBBH Long term debt BBB Ba2 BBB BBBH Subordinated debt BB+ Ba3 BB+ BBB Outlook December 31, 2010 Negative Negative Negative Negative (1) Not Prime In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions access to the capital markets or short term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions financial condition and liquidity. See the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased to $16.5 billion at year end 2011 versus $16.7 billion at year end 2010. In 2011, net losses reduced stockholders equity by $215 million, cash dividends declared reduced stockholders equity by $51 million for common stock and $175 million for preferred stock, and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $191 million. On May 7, 2009, the final results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) were released requiring Regions to submit a capital plan to its regulators detailing the steps to be utilized to increase total Tier 1 common equity by $2.5 billion, of which at least $0.4 billion had to be new Tier 1 equity (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation and Table 27 Capital Ratios for further discussion). The Companys public equity offering of common stock, announced May 20, 2009, resulted in the issuance of 460 million shares at $4 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1.8 billion, net of issuance costs. The Company also issued 287,500 shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, Series B (Series B shares), generating net proceeds of approximately $278 million in 2009. Accrued dividends on the Series B shares reduced retained earnings by $12 million and $19 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively. In November 2009, a single investor converted approximately 20,000 Series B shares to common shares as allowed under the original transaction documents. On June 18, 2010, as allowed by the terms of the Series B shares, Regions initiated an early conversion of all of the remaining outstanding Series B shares. Dividends accrued and 101 Table of Contents unpaid at the conversion date were settled through issuance of common shares in accordance with the original document. Approximately 63 million common shares were issued in 2010 in the conversion and dividend settlement. No Series B shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011 or 2010. In addition to the offerings mentioned above, in 2009 the Company also issued approximately 33 million common shares in exchange for $202 million of outstanding 6.625 percent trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust II (the Trust). The trust preferred securities were exchanged for junior subordinated notes issued by the Company to the Trust. The Company recognized a pre tax gain of approximately $61 million on the extinguishment of the junior subordinated notes. The increase in shareholders equity related to the debt for common share exchange was approximately $135 million, net of issuance costs. These public offerings along with other capital raising efforts resulted in Regions fully meeting the Tier 1 common equity capital requirement and exceeding the Tier 1 capital requirements prescribed by the SCAP (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2011 or 2010. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between Regions and the U.S. Treasury entered into on November 14, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys Capital Purchase Program (CPP). See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) for more information. Regions ratio of stockholders equity to total assets was 12.99 percent at December 31, 2011 and 12.64 percent December 31, 2010. Regions ratio of tangible common stockholders equity (stockholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 compared to 6.04 percent at December 31, 2010 (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income and the reduction in tangible assets. In 2011 and 2010, Regions annual dividend was $0.04 per common share compared to $0.13 in 2009. Regions does not expect to increase its quarterly dividend above $0.01 per common share for the foreseeable future. BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Companys assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk based measure and a leverage measure. The risk based capital requirements are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk weighted assets, inclusive of off balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital. 102 Table of Contents The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets is 8 percent. At least 50 percent of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program, minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, less goodwill, disallowed deferred tax assets and certain other intangibles (Tier 1 capital). The remainder (Tier 2 capital) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatorily convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital is total risk based capital or total capital. However, under the Collins Amendment, which was passed as a section of the Dodd Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be eliminated as an element of Tier 1 capital. This disallowance of trust preferred securities will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016. Debt or equity instruments issued to the Federal government as part of the CPP are exempt from the Collins Amendment. As of December 31, 2011, Regions had $846 million of trust preferred securities that are subject to the Collins Amendment and $3.5 billion of preferred equity that is exempt from the Collins Amendment. The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3 percent of Tier 1 capital to average assets less goodwill and disallowed deferred tax assets (the Leverage ratio). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1 percent to 2 percent above the minimum 3 percent level. In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. While not currently codified 1, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and or the tangible common stockholders equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). The Dodd Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit four scenarios including the companys baseline forecast, the Federal Reserves baseline outlook, the Companys stress case and the Federal Reserves stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions capital plans by mid March 2012. The Federal Reserve intends to publish the results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III based on the proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which will begin in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. The Companys estimated Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2011, based on Regions current understanding of the guidelines, were approximately 11.39 and 7.70 percent, respectively, which are above the Basel III minimums of 8.5 percent for Tier 1 capital and 7 percent for Tier 1 common. Based on Regions understanding of the calculation for the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III, Regions currently 1 On December 20, 2011 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on enhanced capital standards and early remediation requirements mandated by sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd Frank Act. If enacted as proposed this would codify the calculation of Tier 1 Common Capital. 103 Table of Contents meets the requirement due to the Companys current cash and investment positions. Should Regions cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, such that the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently codified in the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions disclosed calculations (see Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation for further details). See the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements subsection of the Business section and the Risk Factors section for more information. See Note 13 Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2011, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized. Table 27 Capital Ratios December 31 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Risk based capital: Stockholders equity (GAAP) $ 16,499 $ 16,734 Accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss 69 260 Non qualifying goodwill and intangibles (4,900 ) (5,706 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1) (432 ) (424 ) Disallowed servicing assets (35 ) (27 ) Qualifying non controlling interests 92 92 Qualifying trust preferred securities 846 846 Tier 1 capital 12,139 11,775 Qualifying subordinated debt 2,145 2,418 Adjusted allowance for loan losses (2) 1,164 1,213 Other 90 121 Tier 2 capital 3,399 3,752 Total capital $ 15,538 $ 15,527 Risk weighted assets (regulatory) $ 91,449 $ 94,966 Capital ratios: Tier 1 common risk based ratio (non GAAP) 8.51 % 7.85 % Tier 1 capital to total risk weighted assets 13.28 12.40 Total capital to total risk weighted assets 16.99 16.35 Leverage 9.91 9.30 Stockholders equity to total assets 12.99 12.64 Common stockholders equity to total assets 10.30 10.09 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (non GAAP) 6.58 6.04 (1) Only one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes. (2) Includes $78 million and $119 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives. 104 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (trust preferred securities) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long term borrowings (see Note 12 Long Term Borrowings to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the Supervision and Regulation Capital Requirements section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2011 was $873 million, which included $184 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $180 million as of December 31, 2011. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $59 million at December 31, 2011. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 Variable Interest Entities to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity to assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Companys interest rate positioning. The Company is asset sensitive as of December 31, 2011. Refer to Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity for additional details on Regions interest rate sensitivity. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings. 105 Table of Contents Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates and the associated impact on prepayments. Regions market risk is made up of three components: interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and capital markets and brokerage related risks (primarily associated with Morgan Keegan). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. The Company, primarily through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market related risks associated with its brokerage and market related activities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are presented and appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committees focus is on Regions overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Companys management quarterly. Additionally, Regions Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond managements control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Regions primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short term indicator of Regions interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement Financial simulation models are Regions primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are 106 Table of Contents expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on market forward rates. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements As of December 31, 2011, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2012. The protractedly low interest rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short term interest rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market forward outlook, Regions loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($141) million and ($111) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2012. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans. Table 28 Interest Rate Sensitivity Gradual Change in Interest Rates Estimated Annual Change in Net Interest IncomeDecember 31, 2011 (In millions) +200 basis points $ 300 +100 basis points 173 50 basis points (111 ) Instantaneous Change in Interest Rates +200 basis points $ 364 +100 basis points 222 50 basis points (141 ) 107 Table of Contents Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). Derivatives Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), which consists of members of Regions senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks. Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Companys customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate funding position to a variable rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable rate loan portfolio to fixed rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held for sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and or posted to that counterparty. The Credit Risk section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The primary objective of Regions hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions execution, the 108 Table of Contents accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions year end derivatives positions and further discussion. On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions current portfolio. MARKET RISK PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because interest rates are currently relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios. MARKET RISK BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK When there are references to Morgan Keegan it should not be assumed or inferred that any specific activity mentioned is carried on by any particular Morgan Keegan entity. In addition, in early 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. Refer to Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Note 25 Subsequent Event to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Morgan Keegans business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is also exposed to market risk in its capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, and mortgage trading activity, which includes secondary marketing of loans to government sponsored entities. Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and Government sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to make a market in these securities. Morgan Keegans trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiarys capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities. In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. As of December 31, 2011, the total notional amount of forward commitments was approximately $810 million. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as 109 Table of Contents such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential gain or loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility. Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to be announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties. Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheet, are marked to market, and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegans securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegans equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegans business. Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding regulatory action related to Morgan Keegan auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2011, customers of Morgan Keegan owned approximately $675 thousand of auction rate securities, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $135 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (VAR) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time to liquidate time horizon. The end of period VAR was approximately $423 thousand at December 31, 2011 and $805 thousand at December 31, 2010. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2011 was $1.7 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $782 thousand. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Companys funding requirements. 110 Table of Contents Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders equity. Regions goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Companys cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Companys funding requirements. In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions policy is to maintain a sufficient level of funding to meet projected cash needs, including all debt service and maturities, for the subsequent two years at the parent company and acceptable periods for the bank and other affiliates. The Companys current non investment grade credit ratings makes access to short term unsecured funding markets unreliable; therefore, the Companys funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Companys ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. Regions parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 was $2.5 billion. Table 29 Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period (5) Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than5 Years IndeterminableMaturity Total (In millions) Deposits (1) $ 12,313 $ 4,971 $ 2,075 $ 24 $ 76,244 $ 95,627 Short term borrowings 3,067 3,067 Long term borrowings 1,853 2,444 846 2,967 8,110 Lease obligations 170 266 208 499 1,143 Purchase obligations 10 3 13 Benefit obligations (2) 12 31 25 77 145 Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships (3) 305 305 Unrecognized tax benefits (4) 46 46 Visa litigation 22 22 Other 361 361 $ 17,730 $ 7,715 $ 3,515 $ 3,567 $ 76,312 $ 108,839 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non interest bearing demand, savings, interest bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts. (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan. (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $39 million and tax related interest and penalties of $7 million. See Note 19 Income Taxes to the consoliated financial statements. (5) See Note 23 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, to the consolidated financial statements for the Companys commercial commitments at December 31, 2011. The securities portfolio is one of Regions primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 Securities to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities. In anticipation of regulatory changes proposed within the Basel III framework, in particular the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Regions increased its holdings in securities backed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), which are explicitly backed by the U.S. Government. Additionally, the Company has $9.9 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. 111 Table of Contents Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 Selected Loan Maturities). At December 31, 2011, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $12.9 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $73 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one to four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. During 2010 and 2011, Regions customer base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers desire to lock in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products. Regions elected to exit the FDICs TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non interest bearing demand transaction accounts will be provided until January 1, 2013. Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non interest bearing accounts to an interest bearing account. Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, interest bearing deposits in other banks. At December 31, 2011, Regions had over $4.9 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2011, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.4 billion. Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking and brokerage industries and are accounted for as borrowings. Regions financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2011, Regions borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $5.4 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one to four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $219 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2011. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. In 2010, Regions issued from the shelf $250 million (par value) of 4.875% senior notes due April 2013 and $500 million (par value) of 5.75% senior notes due June 2015. 112 Table of Contents Regions Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2011. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See the Short Term Borrowings section for further detail. See the Stockholders Equity section for discussion of the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. COUNTERPARTY RISK Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company. Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business. To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management. Regions has various counterparties that are regularly relied upon for market making capabilities, primarily broker dealers. With these counterparties, Regions typically has in place margin agreements that are monitored daily, with margin posted to collateralize exposure as appropriate. Interaction with these counterparties is part of the risk management and monitoring process outlined above. INTERNATIONAL RISK Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure except for an immaterial amount in government securities bonds to a single non European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), corporate securities and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the recent Eurozone turmoil. In addition to Western Europe, Regions corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe, North America and Australia. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region. 113 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, Regions international exposure was approximately $500 million in total. Amounts in excess of 75 percent of the exposure relate to highly rated Western European entities. Regions Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the set limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal, quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review. CREDIT RISK Regions objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the Credit Quality section found earlier in this report for further information. Management Process Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk rated, approved and monitored. Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi annually or more frequently as needed. To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures. There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios. Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended. 114 Table of Contents Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. Economic Environment in Regions Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The Great Recession that began in December 2007 continued through 2008 and into 2009. Through this recessionary period, the overall output of goods and services experienced its sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, about 70 percent of all recorded spending, has been adversely impacted by declining inflation adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly debt payments, a negative employment outlook, a higher savings portion of after tax personal income, and historically low consumer confidence. However, business sector output continues to grow, driven by replenishment of inventories that were highly depleted during the recession. In 2009, the economic downturn that began with the housing slowdown continued to negatively impact consumer confidence. In turn, lower confidence levels negatively affected demand for goods and services. This lower demand impacted retail sales and led to increased vacancy rates and lower rent rolls for the commercial real estate sector. High unemployment continued in 2009 but began improving in 2010 and 2011. Residential real estate prices were stable in 2010, but declined again in 2011. Concerns remain about the impact on real estate prices from the future sale of the large supply of homes that are either on bank balance sheets or have mortgages that are currently delinquent. Late in 2010, significant fiscal and monetary stimuli were implemented. The Federal Reserve approved the purchase of an additional $600 billion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and the Congress approved significant tax provisions that were expected to increase consumption, and, thereby, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Even with these measures, the 1.7 percent growth in real GDP in 2011 trailed the 3.0 percent growth rate in 2010, as the U.S was negatively impacted by the ongoing credit crisis in the Eurozone. Overall, the consensus for 2012 is for marginally better but still below trend economic growth. While the unemployment rate in the U.S declined from 9.4 percent in December 2010 to 8.5 percent in December 2011, the rate has been 8.5 percent or greater for 34 consecutive months. Portfolio Characteristics Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2011, commercial loans represented 46 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 14 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type. Commercial The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $36.0 billion at year end 2011 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as commercial loans are owner occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge offs on commercial loans were 1.40 percent in 2011 compared to 1.86 percent in 2010. 115 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $10.7 billion at year end 2011 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 5.52 percent in 2011, as compared to 5.66 percent in 2010. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 14.32 percent in 2010 to 11.71 percent in 2011. Residential First Mortgage The residential first mortgage portfolio primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single family residences that are originated through Regions branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2011, losses on single family residences totaled 1.52 percent, as compared to 1.53 percent in 2010. Home Equity The home equity portfolio totaled $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011, as compared to $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates rose to historically high levels. Losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. During 2011, losses on home equity decreased to 2.41 percent from 2.80 percent in 2010. Indirect Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re entered indirect auto lending. During 2011, this portfolio class increased $256 million to $1.8 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.75 percent for 2011, as compared to 0.99 percent for 2010. Consumer Credit Card During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately 500,000 existing Regions branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services, adding approximately $1.0 billion in consumer principal balances. The products are primarily open ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses represents managements estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Allowance Process Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Companys policies relating to 116 Table of Contents delinquent loans and charge offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) managements analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation. Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent. For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and managements judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense. As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and simultaneous with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure a guarantors ability to perform, under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses. Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Managements determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. 117 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous years total, are included in Table 17 Allowance for Credit Losses. Also, refer to Table 18 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses for details pertaining to managements allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of managements testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently. Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, human resources, and operations and technology. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10 K and 10 Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, human resources, administration, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Companys assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10 K and 10 Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2010 WITH 2009 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.27 per diluted share, in 2009. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, 118 Table of Contents or $0.56 per diluted common share, in 2010 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.3 billion, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2009. Significant drivers of 2010 results included an elevated provision for loan losses and other real estate expenses, as well as a $75 million regulatory charge. These items were partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in 2010 compared to $3.3 billion in 2009. The net interest margin from continuing operations (fully taxable equivalent basis) was 2.91 percent in 2010, compared to 2.68 percent during 2009. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 61 basis points in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 31 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long term interest rates in particular remained low in 2010, pressuring yields on fixed rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 4.78 percent in 2009 to 3.66 percent in 2010. The overall costs of deposits improved from 1.35 percent in 2009 to 0.78 percent in 2010, although short term interest rates (e.g. Fed Funds) remained relatively stable. Non interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.5 billion in 2010, compared to $2.8 billion in 2009. The year over year decrease was due primarily to several items impacting 2009 with a lower or no corresponding impact on 2010. These 2009 items include gains from terminations of leveraged leases, which were largely offset by income taxes, a gain on extinguishment of debt realized in connection with the Companys issuance of common stock in exchange for trust preferred securities, and gains related to transactions in Visa stock. Lower mortgage income, resulting from a decline in origination volume, also drove the year over year decline. These decreases were largely offset by higher gains from sales of securities in 2010, as well as increases in non interest income attributable to service charges and capital markets and investment income. Capital markets and investment income increased $30 million to $69 million in 2010 from $39 million in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the capital markets revenues. Trust assets under management were approximately $76.6 billion at year end 2010 compared to approximately $70.0 billion at year end 2009. The rise in assets under management was primarily driven by a higher amount of asset inflows and higher end of period asset valuations than in the prior year. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 2 percent and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2010 and 2009. This modest increase was a result of a higher level of customer transactions and new account growth that began in 2009 and continued in 2010. These factors were slightly offset by policy changes, as well as changes related to Regulation E. In 2010, mortgage income decreased $12 million, or 5 percent to $247 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to decreased refinance activity during 2010 as compared to 2009. Mortgage originations totaled $8.2 billion in 2010 as compared to $9.6 billion in 2009. However, the decrease in origination income was partially offset by market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives which added $16 million and $13 million to mortgage income in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regions reported net gains of $394 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2010, compared to net gains of $69 million in 2009. The Companys gains were due to increased sales activity within the available for sale category as part of the Companys asset/liability management strategies. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. In 2009, the Company significantly reduced its exposure in non agency investment securities, collateralized mortgage backed securities and municipal bonds through sales of $5.4 billion of these securities, incurring some losses on the sales. The proceeds from the sales in 2010 and 2009 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage backed securities classified as available for sale. 119 Table of Contents Non interest expense from continuing operations in 2010 included a $75 million regulatory charge. Non interest expense, excluding the regulatory charge (non GAAP), decreased $1 million to $3.8 billion in 2010. See Table 6 Non Interest Expense from Continuing Operations (including Non GAAP reconciliation) and the text preceding Table 2 GAAP to Non GAAP Reconciliation. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2010. At December 31, 2010, Regions had 27,829 employees compared to 28,509 at December 31, 2009. Net occupancy expense decreased 3 percent to $411 million in 2010, due primarily to charges associated with the 2009 decision to consolidate 121 branches. Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million to $277 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to branch consolidation charges of $7 million incurred in 2009. Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $3 million to $170 million in 2010, reflecting an increase in the level of credit related legal expenses in 2010. OREO expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO and net gains and losses on sales of properties, as well as other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security and grounds maintenance. Through Regions efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $153 million to $454 million in 2010 compared to $607 million in 2009. OREO expense increased $34 million to $209 million in 2010 compared to $175 million in 2009, primarily driven by valuation declines resulting from further deterioration of the housing and real estate markets. FDIC premiums decreased $7 million to $220 million in 2010. The decrease resulted from a $64 million special assessment in 2009. The FDIC made a number of changes to its assessment rate schedule, which drove an offsetting increase in premium rates. The bank regulatory agencies ratings, comprised of Regions Banks capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with its long term debt issuer ratings and financial ratios, were the primary factors in determining FDIC insurance premiums. Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $43 million to $640 million in 2010. The Companys income tax benefit for 2010 was $376 million compared to a tax benefit of $194 million in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 44.5 percent and 15.3 percent, respectively. The increase in income tax benefit reflects the impact of the decline in the number and amount of leveraged lease terminations offset by the recognition of the regulatory charge and the decrease in the consolidated pre tax loss. Net charge offs totaled $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010 compared to $2.3 billion, or 2.38 percent of average loans in 2009. The increased loss rate reflected seasoning of losses as the Company moved through the credit cycle as well as the impact of asset dispositions which increased charge offs and decreased average loan balances. Charge off ratios were higher across most major classes, with investor real estate experiencing the largest increase. Non performing assets decreased from $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, reflecting managements efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in managements judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2010 the provision for loan losses was $2.9 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $3.5 billion in 2009. 120 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.1 billion or 3.43 percent at year end 2009. The increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflected managements estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which stabilized during 2010, as well as a result of the decline in the loan portfolio balance. Table 30 Quarterly Results of Operations 2011 2010 FourthQuarter (3) ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter (In millions, except per share data) Total interest income $ 1,031 $ 1,055 $ 1,076 $ 1,090 $ 1,120 $ 1,147 $ 1,167 $ 1,203 Total interest expense 182 205 220 235 257 288 321 382 Net interest income 849 850 856 855 863 859 846 821 Provision for loan losses 295 355 398 482 682 760 651 770 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 554 495 458 373 181 99 195 51 Total non interest income, excluding securities gains (losses), net 500 514 519 498 587 488 516 504 Securities gains (losses), net 7 (1 ) 24 82 333 2 59 Total non interest expense 1,124 850 956 932 990 910 966 993 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (63 ) 158 45 21 111 (321 ) (255 ) (379 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 18 17 (34 ) (29 ) 44 (157 ) (95 ) (168 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (81 ) 141 79 50 67 (164 ) (160 ) (211 ) Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations before income taxes (472 ) 24 4 36 31 16 (110 ) 22 Income tax expense (benefit) (5 ) 10 (26 ) 17 9 7 7 7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (467 ) 14 30 19 22 9 (117 ) 15 Net income (loss) $ (548 ) $ 155 $ 109 $ 69 $ 89 $ (155 ) $ (277 ) $ (196 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders $ (135 ) $ 87 $ 25 $ (2 ) $ 14 $ (218 ) $ (218 ) $ (270 ) Net income (loss) available to common shareholders $ (602 ) $ 101 $ 55 $ 17 $ 36 $ (209 ) $ (335 ) $ (255 ) Earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations: (1) Basic $ (0.11 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.02 $ (0.00 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.23 ) Diluted (0.11 ) 0.07 0.02 (0.00 ) 0.01 (0.17 ) (0.18 ) (0.23 ) Earnings (loss) per common share: (1) Basic $ (0.48 ) $ 0.08 $ 0.04 $ 0.01 $ 0.03 $ (0.17 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.21 ) Diluted (0.48 ) 0.08 0.04 0.01 0.03 (0.17 ) (0.28 ) (0.21 ) Cash dividends declared per share 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Market price: (2) High 4.46 6.53 7.45 8.09 7.62 7.76 9.33 8.05 Low 2.82 3.33 5.86 6.79 5.12 6.12 6.55 5.33 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year to date amounts due to rounding. (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices. (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit. 121 Table of Contents 
 
