Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10 K as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The words believe, expect, anticipate, project, could, would, and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied in the forward looking statements. The most significant of these risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K under Item 1A Risk Factors. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a global medical technology company with clinically proven and industry leading products and services designed to measurably improve the safety and quality of healthcare. Our offerings include established brands used in hospitals throughout the United States and in more than 130 countries worldwide. We offer comprehensive product lines in the areas of intravenous (IV) infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments. Our primary product brands include: Alaris IV infusion systems that feature our proprietary Guardrails software, an application that alerts the clinician when a parameter is outside the institutions pre established limitations for that medication, thereby helping to reduce IV medication errors; Pyxis automated medication dispensing systems that provide comprehensive medication management and Pyxis automated medical supply dispensing systems; AVEA and Pulmonetic Systems ventilation and respiratory products, and Jaeger and SensorMedics pulmonary products; ChloraPrep skin antiseptic products that help prevent vascular and surgical site infections and MedMined software and surveillance services that help target and reduce healthcare associated infections (HAIs); and V. Mueller surgical instruments and related products and services. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we generated revenue of $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion respectively, and income from continuing operations of $171 million in fiscal year 2010 and $290 million in fiscal year 2009. Approximately 69% of our fiscal year 2010 revenue was from customers in the United States and 31% was from customers outside of the United States. Separation from Cardinal Health We were incorporated in Delaware on January 14, 2009 for the purpose of holding Cardinal Health, Inc.s clinical and medical products businesses in anticipation of spinning off from Cardinal Health. We completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the businesses comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us (the contribution), and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders (the distribution), based on a distribution ratio of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. Until our separation from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009, CareFusion Corporation was a wholly owned subsidiary of Cardinal Health. Accordingly, our historical financial information for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and prior years does not reflect our results as a separate, stand alone company. In this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we describe the businesses contributed to us by Cardinal Health in the spinoff as if they were our businesses for all historical periods described. References in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to our historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of our business are generally intended to refer to the historical assets, liabilities, products, businesses or activities of the contributed businesses, as conducted as part of Cardinal Health and its subsidiaries prior to the spinoff. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management 1 Table of Contents products in the United States markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are reflected in the CareFusion financial information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K as discontinued operations. Our Strengths We possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: Scale and focus. We are one of the largest medical technology companies in the world, with long standing customer relationships, a global presence, and a focus on helping clinicians improve patient safety. The prevalence and magnitude of medical errors and HAIs have put patient safety among the top issues for hospitals, regulators and payers in the United States and increasingly, worldwide. We believe that we are well positioned to address these global quality and patient safety needs by providing products and services that help hospitals and other healthcare providers prevent medication errors, reduce infections, and manage medications and supplies more efficiently. Technology leadership and innovation. We have a long history of innovation and developing products and services that enable our customers to deliver safer and more cost effective patient care. We pioneered the concept of a smart infusion pump that alerts the clinician when a parameter is outside the institutions pre established limitations for that medication, and we created the market for medication dispensing machines that automate the management of medications from the pharmacy to the nursing unit. We have also integrated our products with other information systems within the hospital, including financial and business systems that support patient admissions, discharges and transfers, operational systems that include inventory management and clinical systems that include pharmacy information and electronic medical records. We were the first to integrate automated supply dispensing systems with clinical information systems that enable clinicians to chart, charge and reorder supplies with the touch of a button. Today, we have an extensive library of healthcare information system interfaces, with almost 17,000 distinct interfaces to almost 300 vendor systems in almost 3,500 facilities domestically. These interfaces allow us to integrate our products with any of the major information technology products in healthcare. In the respiratory care arena, we have strong positions with technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary and sleep related disorders. We believe that our strong heritage of leadership and innovation provides us with a solid foundation for the continued development of safe and cost effective products that will enable us to continue to grow our revenue. Industry expertise. We employ a wide range of experienced clinical professionals, including doctors, nurses and pharmacists, who bring a detailed understanding of how providers use our products and the current state of clinical practice, including best practices for infusion, medication management, infection prevention and respiratory therapy. These experts enable us to develop innovative and industry leading products and services because of their in depth understanding of the medical and clinical protocols for our products. Focus on customer service. As of June 30, 2010, we employed more than 800 sales people in the United States and over 1,500 field, clinical and technical service personnel. We work with our customers to optimize their workflow as we meet their equipment needs, allowing them to deliver the highest level of patient care and reduce operating costs. We provide on site clinical and technical support, product effectiveness tracking and customer training to provide the support necessary to maximize medication safety. Strategy We seek to grow our business by, among other things: Focusing on healthcare safety and productivity. We intend to continue to address the global priority of quality and patient safety by providing products and services that help hospitals and other healthcare providers prevent 2 Table of Contents medication errors, reduce infections and manage medications and supplies more efficiently, which helps to reduce overall costs for our customers. Productivity and safety are rapidly becoming the standards by which healthcare providers are measured and compensated. We intend to continue to expand our product portfolio with additional and enhanced products and services that enable hospitals and other healthcare providers to reduce medication errors and overall treatment costs. Focusing on innovative and clinically proven products. With hospitals and other healthcare providers increasingly adopting outcome based standards as a key part of their decision making processes, we will offer additional and enhanced products and services that demonstrate clinical differentiation by providing a proven solution with simple and compelling economic benefits. We intend to increase our investment in research and development to bring to market products that make it easy for providers to follow evidence based protocols in patient care. In fiscal year 2010, we introduced 27 new or enhanced products, and our innovation pipeline includes numerous additional new or enhanced products that are expected to be launched in the next few years. Accelerating global growth. Our industry leading positions in the United States markets in which we currently operate provide us with a platform for growth outside of the United States. Because our products and technologies have similar applications around the world, we intend to focus on expanding our operations in select developed and emerging markets outside the United States. We also intend to invest in expanding our research and development capabilities to better tailor products to the needs of markets outside the United States. Pursuing strategic opportunities. We intend to continue to explore organic growth, strategic alliances and acquisition opportunities that enable us to address our customers key concerns of productivity and medication safety. We intend to selectively pursue strategic opportunities that give us access to innovative technologies, complementary product lines or new markets, yet remain consistent with our focus on productivity and safety. Our business strategy also involves assessing our portfolio of businesses with a view of divesting non core businesses and product lines that do not align with our objectives. Acquisitions and Dispositions Our business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions by Cardinal Health of established healthcare companies. Since our separation from Cardinal Health, we have taken steps to expand our product offerings through acquisitions and to divest non core businesses. In May 2010, we acquired Medegen, LLC (Medegen), a manufacturer of clinically differentiated IV needleless access valves and administration sets, for $224 million in cash. In addition, during fiscal year 2010 we divested our Audiology business and our Research Services business. Business Segments Our business consists of two reporting segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services. Critical Care Technologies includes our infusion, dispensing and respiratory care businesses that develop, manufacture and sell capital equipment and related dedicated and non dedicated disposables. Medical Technologies and Services includes our infection prevention and medical specialties products and services businesses that develop, manufacture and sell primarily single use, disposable products and reusable surgical instruments. See note 16 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for certain segment financial data relating to our business. 3 Table of Contents Critical Care Technologies Segment In our Critical Care Technologies (CCT) segment, we develop, manufacture and market equipment and related supplies for infusion, medication and supply dispensing, and respiratory care. We believe our products enable healthcare professionals to improve patient safety by reducing medication errors and improving administrative controls, while simultaneously improving workflow and increasing operational efficiency. This segment primarily sells capital equipment and related dedicated and non dedicated disposable products. We sell these products primarily through our direct sales force, but use third party distributors as well, particularly outside the United States. Our products in this segment are integrated with other information systems within the hospital, including financial and business systems that support patient admissions, discharges and transfers, operational systems that include inventory management and clinical systems that include pharmacy information and electronic medical records. Today, we have an extensive library of healthcare information system interfaces, with almost 17,000 distinct interfaces to almost 300 vendor systems in almost 3,500 facilities domestically. In addition to our range of infusion and dispensing systems and respiratory products, we also offer a comprehensive group of value added services and programs, software technical services and clinical education. Our project management teams help our customers develop a project implementation plan and help to ensure a rapid, seamless implementation of our products. We offer a field service organization as well as customer call centers to support our customers before, during and after product installation. Our field service organization provides on site expertise to resolve customers service issues, and we operate several customer call centers to provide additional support to our customers. We also maintain a remote access system to help us quickly diagnose and rapidly resolve customers service issues. The following chart presents the CCT segments key product lines: Key Product Lines Infusion IV medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, including dedicated and non dedicated disposables, software applications and related patient monitoring equipment (sold under the Alaris, SmartSite, MaxPlus and MaxGuard brands) Dispensing Automated dispensing machines and related applications for distributing and managing medication and medical supplies (sold under the Pyxis brand) Respiratory Care Equipment and supplies for ventilation and respiratory and sleep diagnostics (sold under the AVEA, Pulmonetic Systems, Jaeger and SensorMedics brands) Infusion We are a leader in the design, development and marketing of IV medication technology, including IV infusion systems that deliver medications and other fluids directly into a patients veins in precise, measured quantities over a wide range of infusion rates. We have the largest installed base of large volume infusion pumps (a key component of the infusion system) in the United States. We sell infusion products primarily to hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers and transport services. The international infusion systems market is more regionalized and fragmented than the United States market, and we have developed infusion products tailored to meet the different needs of this market. As regions become more aware of the importance of patient safety, we expect the demand for more sophisticated products will increase as it has in the United States. We have an established presence in countries that have already recognized the importance of patient safety, such as the United Kingdom and Australia. 4 Table of Contents Our Alaris System enables healthcare professionals to administer intravenous fluids while at the same time monitoring vital signs such as respiratory activity and blood oxygen levels. The Guardrails software application alerts a clinician when a parameter is outside the institutions pre established limitations (known as a data set) for that medication, thereby helping to reduce IV medication errors. Using a centralized server, data sets can be uploaded wirelessly to the individual Alaris System units and continuous quality improvement (CQI) data can be downloaded from the Alaris System. The CQI data is then used to refine the data sets. In addition, the centralized server makes it possible to send infusion system data to other hospital information systems, including electronic medication administration records, pharmacy information systems, alarms, management applications and documentation systems. We offer a full range of disposable IV administration sets and accessories, many of which feature our proprietary SmartSite needle free valves and patented technology designed to help health care providers reduce catheter related blood stream infections (CRBSI) and prevent catheter occlusions. In addition, our acquisition of Medegen in May 2010 expanded our product offerings to include clinically differentiated IV needleless access valves and administration sets, which we expect to drive continued market penetration and innovation. In North America, each of our current large volume infusion pumps uses only dedicated disposable administration sets designed and manufactured by or for us for that particular pump. Dispensing We are the leading provider of point of care systems that automate the dispensing of medications and supplies in hospitals and other healthcare facilities in the United States, where about one out of every two acute care hospitals use our flagship product line, the Pyxis MedStation system. We sell our dispensing products primarily to hospitals and other healthcare facilities including oncology clinics, ambulatory surgical centers, long term care facilities and physician offices. Internationally, the standards for clinical and pharmacy practice, the prevalence of clinical information systems and the regulatory and reimbursement policies tend to vary by country and region. As such, the current market for our medication and supply dispensing products is in an early stage of development. We consider the international market for these products to be a long term growth opportunity. Studies show that the medication process is the most complex and therefore one of the largest sources of hospital inefficiencies. In 1989, we championed the concept of decentralized medication management where medications are securely maintained and accessed at the nurses unit and became the first to introduce automated dispensing products to the market. Our products are designed to help healthcare professionals reduce medication errors, enhance administrative controls, improve clinician workflow, increase operational efficiency and improve billing accuracy. Our products enable healthcare professionals to provide safer patient care by helping to ensure that the right medications are delivered in the right doses via the right routes to the right patients at the right times. Our Pyxis medication management products automate the management of medications from the pharmacy to the nursing unit and integrate with other operational and information systems within the hospital. Other Pyxis products that are focused on medication management include the Pyxis Anesthesia system for medication dispensing in the operating room and the PyxisConnect physician order management system, which streamlines the physician order process, decreases order turnaround time and reduces transcription errors. We have other product offerings that, among other things, help to secure, track and replenish supplies of controlled substances and help to ensure the accuracy of medications picked in the pharmacy and delivered to the Pyxis MedStation system. In addition to medication dispensing, we also offer a comprehensive portfolio of medical supply management systems at the point of use, including the Pyxis SupplyStation system and the Pyxis ProcedureStation system, which are supply dispensing systems with controlled access and radio frequency features that deliver custom solutions tailored to meet the needs of each customer. 5 Table of Contents We also offer wireless handheld technology that supports both our infusion and dispensing businesses. Our positive patient identification applications for bedside verification are a critical enabler of our integrated medication management and patient safety capabilities. Using our wireless handheld technologies for positive patient identification can help healthcare providers ensure the safety and accuracy of medication administration, specimen collection and blood transfusions. We believe these technologies can also improve patient charting and review. To help provide financial flexibility to our customers, we offer them the opportunity to lease our dispensing products. We provide the financing for the majority of our customers under our leasing program rather than relying on third party providers of credit. Respiratory Care We develop, manufacture, market and service products for diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary and sleep related disorders. Patients with respiratory conditions are among the highest cost, highest risk, largest and fastest growing hospital populations. Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) is the second most common HAI in the United States. We offer an extensive line of industry leading mechanical ventilators marketed globally that treat respiratory insufficiency caused by illness, injury or premature birth and help to reduce the incidence of VAP. These products are used in a variety of settings, from intensive care units to homecare. We sell our respiratory care products worldwide to a variety of customers including hospitals, clinics, private physicians and research centers. We also offer high frequency oscillatory ventilators (HFOV) which are specialized devices designed to provide superior pulmonary gas exchange, while protecting the patients lungs from damage that may be caused by the cyclic expansion and contraction characteristic of conventional ventilators. Our HFOV products are primarily used to treat children and premature infants who suffer from acute respiratory failure and adults who suffer from acute respiratory distress syndrome. We are one of the largest manufacturers of lung function testing equipment. We offer a broad line of pulmonary function testing equipment, from basic spirometry products, which measure the rate and volume of breathing, to complete pulmonary function and metabolic systems, which measure a wide range of heart, lung and metabolic functions. Other respiratory products we offer include dedicated disposables such as ventilator circuits (tubing used to connect patients to ventilator machines), oxygen masks, cannulae and suction catheters used to clear the trachea. We also have an established presence in the sleep diagnostics market and sell products ranging from basic sleep diagnostic systems that monitor a single patient to networked, modular, expandable sleep labs that can monitor multiple patients simultaneously. Our range of products used to treat obstructive sleep apnea consists of face masks, headgear, replacement filters and tubing, and a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device for providing the therapy. Medical Technologies and Services Segment In our Medical Technologies and Services (MT&S) segment, we develop, manufacture and market disposable infection prevention products, software based infection detection services, surgical and diagnostic instrumentation and neurological monitoring equipment. The majority of products in this segment are used primarily in the operating room and interventional suites, and to a lesser degree in the critical care departments of hospitals. We sell these products and services through a combination of direct sales representatives and third party distributors. 6 Table of Contents The following chart presents the MT&S segments key product lines: Key Product Lines Infection Prevention For the United States market, skin disinfectant and other patient preparation, hair removal and skin care products and infection detection software (sold under the ChloraPrep and MedMined brands); for international markets, all of the above products and also third party sourced surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products and custom surgical procedure kits Medical Specialties Surgical instruments and related products and services, interventional specialty products, such as diagnostic trays and biopsy needles, drainage catheters and vertebral augmentation products, and neurological monitoring and diagnostic products (surgical instruments sold under the V. Mueller brand) Infection Prevention Our infection prevention products consist mainly of single use medical products used in surgical and vascular access procedures. Many of these products enhance patient outcomes by reducing HAIs, such as surgical site infections and catheter related bloodstream infections. HAIs are a significant issue for hospitals around the world, and a recent cost estimate by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (the CDC) puts the economic impact of HAIs between $35 billion and $45 billion per year in the United States alone. As of October 1, 2008, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services no longer reimburse hospitals for the added cost of treating certain HAIs, placing an increased economic burden on hospitals. Most HAIs are related to routine procedures and occurrences in hospitals; in fact, the CDC estimates that 32% of all HAIs are urinary tract infections, 22% are surgical site infections, and 14% are bloodstream infections. In our United States infection prevention business, our key product offering is our line of proprietary ChloraPrep sterile, single use applicators for patient preoperative skin preparation in vascular access and surgical procedures. ChloraPrep products are used by hospitals and surgery centers to disinfect the skin before surgical and vascular procedures. We began to market the ChloraPrep products upon our acquisition of the assets of Enturia in fiscal year 2008. ChloraPrep products use the clinically preferred concentration of the skin antiseptic chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) with 70% isopropyl alcohol. Over 35 clinical studies have demonstrated the superiority of CHG to traditional iodine based products. As a result, more than a dozen internationally recognized agencies and organizations, including the CDC, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, the National Institutes of Health, the American Association of Critical Care Nurses and the American Academy of Pediatrics support the use of CHG based formulations for patient skin preparation. In addition to ChloraPrep products, we also manufacture and market a broad line of patient preparation, hair removal and skin care products, including clippers and razors, special soaps, sponges and scrub brushes for surgeons and other operating room personnel. While our direct selling organization primarily promotes our infection prevention products to acute care hospitals, our products are also used in ambulatory surgical centers and other healthcare settings such as blood banks, dialysis centers and home health and reference labs. In our international infection prevention business, we primarily sell third party sourced surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products and assemble and sell custom surgical procedure kits. The four key categories in these markets are: single use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel that provide barrier protection for patients, doctors and clinical staff during surgery, childbirth and other procedures; surgical gloves in both latex and latex free versions; 7 Table of Contents fluid suction and collection systems that consist of disposable suction canisters and liners, suction tubing and supporting hardware and accessories; and surgical procedure kits that we custom assemble and often include the surgical drapes we sell. We have sales representatives or commissioned agents outside the United States. We have regulatory approval in the United Kingdom to sell ChloraPrep products, and over time our intention is to use our direct selling organization outside the United States to bring ChloraPrep products to international markets. We also offer MedMined services that feature infection detection software for hospitals, alerting clinicians to early signs of an emerging infection issue and allowing the hospital to target improvement efforts at the right place and the right time. This patented program automatically identifies patterns indicative of specific and correctable quality breakdowns to prevent and treat HAIs. More than 300 hospitals in the United States use MedMined services to help them detect, monitor, prevent and measure outcomes related to HAIs. Medical Specialties Our V. Mueller brand is the largest United States supplier of reusable stainless steel surgical instruments primarily focused on the operating room. V. Mueller is an established brand that has been in business for over 100 years and today enables hospitals and surgeons to manage their surgical instruments to ensure the highest level of safety, productivity, quality and performance. We offer over 25,000 unique surgical instruments, as well as surgical instrument information tracking systems, surgical instrument sterilization container systems and surgical instrument repair services. Key products include clamps, needle holders, retractors, specialty scissors and forceps. Our V. Mueller products are sold predominantly in the United States directly to hospitals through a direct selling organization. Additionally, we develop and manufacture a variety of medical devices used primarily by interventional radiologists and surgeons in combination with certain image guidance technologies (for example, x ray, computed tomography and ultrasound). We offer an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine for a variety of clinical disciplines in body and spine pain interventions. Our products include diagnostic trays, bone marrow and soft tissue biopsy needles to diagnose cancer, drainage catheters and vertebral augmentation products to treat painful fractures of the spine. These products are sold predominantly in the United States directly to hospitals. In addition to the products and services described above, we also develop, manufacture, market and service a comprehensive line of neurological and vascular diagnostic and monitoring products, as well as provide a complete line of accessories for these devices. We sell these neurocare products globally to a variety of customers, including hospitals and other healthcare facilities such as private practice and outpatient clinics, ambulatory surgery centers and physician offices. Competition The markets for our products are highly competitive. No one company competes with us across the breadth of our offerings, but individual product lines face significant competition in both our domestic and international markets. We compete based upon quality and reliability, technological innovation, price, customer service and support capabilities, brand recognition, patents and other intellectual property and the value proposition of helping improve patient outcomes while reducing overall costs associated with patient safety. We believe our superior product quality and brand strength give us a competitive advantage. We expect to continue to use our clinical expertise to offer innovative, industry leading products for our customers. Customers, Sales and Distribution Sales to customers in the United States accounted for approximately 69% of our fiscal year 2010 revenue. Our primary end customers in the United States include hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, clinics, long term care facilities and physician offices. A substantial portion of our products in the United States are sold to hospitals 8 Table of Contents that are members of a group purchasing organization (GPO), integrated delivery networks (IDNs), and through wholesalers and distributors. Included within our product sales to wholesalers and distributors are product sales to Cardinal Health, with whom we have a non exclusive distribution relationship following the spinoff. We have purchasing agreements for specified products with a wide range of GPOs in the United States. The scope of products included in these agreements varies by GPO. Sales to customers outside the United States comprised approximately 31% of our fiscal year 2010 revenue, including sales to customers in over 130 countries worldwide. Our primary customers in markets outside the United States are hospitals and wholesalers, which are served through a direct sales force with a presence in more than 15 countries and a network of distributors. Our capital equipment products generally are delivered from our manufacturing facilities directly to the customer. Our disposables and other non capital equipment products generally are delivered from our manufacturing facilities and from third party manufacturers to warehouses and from there, the products are delivered to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products by road, rail, sea and air. Intellectual Property Patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the intellectual property owned by others. We hold numerous patents and have numerous patent applications pending in the United States and in other countries that relate to aspects of the technology used in many of our products. Our policy is to file patent applications in the United States and other countries when we believe it is commercially advantageous to do so. We do not consider our business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent. We own or have rights to use the trademarks, service marks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business. Some of the more important trademarks that we own or have rights to use that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10 K include: CareFusionTM, Alaris&reg;, Guardrails&reg;, Pyxis&reg;, AVEA&reg;, Pulmonetic SystemsTM, Jaeger&reg;, SensorMedics&reg;, ChloraPrep&reg;, V. Mueller&reg;, SmartSite&reg;, MedStation&reg;, PyxisConnect&reg;, Pyxis SupplyStationTM, Pyxis ProcedureStationTM, MedMinedTM, Convertors&reg;, Presource&reg;, CardinalASSISTTM, EnVeTM, Valuelink&reg;, MaxPlusTM and MaxGuardTM which may be registered or trademarked in the United States and other jurisdictions. Research and Development We continuously engage in research and development to introduce new products and enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of our existing products. Our research and development efforts include internal initiatives as well as collaborative development opportunities with third parties and licensing or acquiring technology from third parties. We employ engineers, software developers, clinicians and scientists in research and development worldwide. These experts enable us to create innovative, industry leading products and services because of their in depth understanding of the medical and clinical protocols for our product lines. Our research and development expenses were $159 million, $160 million and $157 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We evaluate developing technologies in areas where we have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition. We intend to continue our focus on research and development as a key strategy for growth, which will focus on internal and external investments in those fields that we believe will offer the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability. 9 Table of Contents Quality Management We place significant emphasis on providing quality products and services to our customers. Quality management plays an essential role in understanding and meeting customer requirements, effectively resolving quality issues and improving our products and services. We have a network of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities that relate to the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our products. To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable requirements, we regularly review our quality systems to determine their effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. We also perform assessments of our suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods. In addition, we conduct quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products and services. From time to time, we may determine that products manufactured or marketed by us do not meet our specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue is identified, we investigate the issue and seek to take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling or other actions. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our business. Regulatory Matters Regulation of Medical Devices in the United States The development, manufacture, sale and distribution of our medical device products are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation. Most notably, all of our medical devices sold in the United States are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), as implemented and enforced by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA, and in some cases other government agencies, administers requirements covering the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post market surveillance of our products. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we market must first receive either premarket notification clearance (by making a 510(k) submission) or premarket approval (by filing a premarket approval application (PMA)) from the FDA pursuant to the FDC Act. In addition, certain modifications made to marketed devices also may require 510(k) clearance or approval of a PMA supplement. The FDAs 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years or even longer. The FDA has recently announced recommendations following two task force investigations into the agencys medical device 510(k) clearance process. If implemented, these recommendations would make the 510(k) clearance process more expensive for us, and could result in delays of future launches of new or modified medical devices. We cannot be sure that 510(k) clearance or PMA approval will be obtained for any product that we propose to market. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. Those regulatory requirements include the following: product listing and establishment registration; adherence to the Quality System Regulation (QSR) which requires stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures; labeling requirements and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of off label uses or indications; adverse event reporting; post approval restrictions or conditions, including post approval clinical trials or other required testing; post market surveillance requirements; the FDAs recall authority, whereby it can ask for, or require, the recall of products from the market; and requirements relating to voluntary corrections or removals. Our manufacturing facilities, as well as those of certain of our suppliers, are subject to periodic and for cause inspections to verify compliance with the QSR as well as other regulatory requirements. If the FDA were to find 10 Table of Contents that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, it could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions, such as product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions to halt manufacturing and distributing products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside of the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our business. Regulation of Medical Devices Outside of the United States Medical device laws also are in effect in many of the non United States markets in which we do business. These laws range from comprehensive device approval requirements for some or all of our products to requests for product data or certifications. Inspection of and controls over manufacturing, as well as monitoring of device related adverse events, also are components of most of these regulatory systems. Most of our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. For example, the European Commission (EC) has harmonized national regulations for the control of medical devices through European Medical Device Directives with which manufacturers must comply. Under these regulations, manufacturers must have received product EC certification from a notified body in order to be able to sell products within the member states of the European Union. Certification allows manufacturers to stamp the products with an EC mark. Products covered by the EC regulations that do not bear the EC mark may not be sold or distributed within the European Union. Regulation of Drugs We market a line of topical antiseptics under the ChloraPrep brand name that are regulated by the FDA and comparable international authorities as nonprescription or over the counter (OTC) drugs. Some of these products are marketed under a new drug application approved by the FDA or its international counterparts. OTC drugs are regulated in the same fashion as prescription drugs in that we must comply with good manufacturing practices, our manufacturing facilities (or those of our contract manufacturers) must be registered and all facilities are subject to inspection by federal and state authorities. Outside the United States, regulatory authorities regulate our OTC products in a manner similar to the FDA. In the United States, advertising of OTC drugs is regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, which imposes certain restrictions on our promotional activities for these products. If we (or our suppliers) fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we could face sanctions ranging from warning letters, injunctions, product seizures, civil or criminal enforcement actions, consent decrees, or removal of the product from distribution. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our business. Healthcare Laws We are subject to various federal, state and local laws in the United States targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, which generally prohibit us from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government sponsored healthcare programs. Healthcare costs have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies around the world. The United States federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Payers have become more influential in the marketplace and increasingly are focused on drug and medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization and the quality and costs of healthcare. Violations of fraud and abuse related laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. 11 Table of Contents Other Regulatory Requirements We are also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti bribery laws applicable in non United States jurisdictions that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non United States government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In the sale, delivery and servicing of our medical devices and software outside of the United States, we must also comply with various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, including those administered by the Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions relating to certain countries and or with certain individuals identified by the United States government. Despite our global trade and compliance program, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these requirements are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and imprisonment. Raw Materials We use a wide variety of resin, metals and electrical components for production of our products. We primarily purchase these materials from external suppliers, some of which are single source suppliers. We purchase materials from selected suppliers based on quality assurance, cost effectiveness and constraints resulting from regulatory requirements, and we work closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Global commodity pricing can ultimately affect pricing of certain of these raw materials. Though we believe we have adequate available sources of raw materials, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access the quantity of raw material needed to sustain operations as well as at a cost effective price. Environmental Our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the United States, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws that restrict the emission of pollutants into the air, discharges of pollutants into bodies of water and disposal of pollutants on the ground. Violations of these laws can result in significant civil and criminal penalties and incarceration. The failure to obtain a permit for certain activities may be a violation of environmental law and subject the owner and operator to civil and criminal sanctions. Most environmental agencies also have the power to shut down an operation if it is operating in violation of environmental law. United States laws also typically allow citizens to bring private enforcement actions in some situations. Outside the United States, the environmental laws and their enforcement vary and may be more burdensome. For example, some European countries impose environmental taxes or require manufacturers to take back used products at the end of their useful life, and others restrict the materials that manufacturers may use in their products and require redesign and labeling of products. Although such laws do not currently have a significant impact on our products, they are expanding rapidly in Europe. We have management programs and processes in place that are intended to minimize the potential for violations of these laws. Other environmental laws, primarily in the United States, address the contamination of land and groundwater and require the clean up of such contamination. These laws may apply not only to the owner or operator of an on going business, but also to the owner of land contaminated by a prior owner or operator. In addition, if a parcel is contaminated by the release of a hazardous substance, such as through its historic use as a disposal site, any person or company that has contributed to that contamination, whether or not it has a legal interest in the land, may be subject to a requirement to clean up the parcel. 12 Table of Contents Employees At June 30, 2010, we employed over 15,000 people across our global operations, with approximately 7,100 employed in the United States. In Europe, some of our employees are represented by unions or works councils. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information We post on our public website our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website by clicking the Financial Information link and then the SEC Filings link. Copies of any of these documents may be obtained free of charge through our website or by contacting our Investor Relations Department at 3750 Torrey View Court, San Diego, California, 92130, or by calling 1 888 876 4287. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information at www.sec.gov. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, relating to the quality of our public disclosure, as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: risks related to our business, risks related to the separation and risks related to our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The healthcare industry is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions, significant competition and dynamic customer requirements that may render existing products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our position in the industry could erode rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. The success of our business depends on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products and adapt to these changing technologies and customer requirements. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including our ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals and clearances on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in a cost effective and 13 Table of Contents timely manner, maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. To compete successfully in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing, acquisitions or joint development agreements. Our failure to enhance our existing products or introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are able to develop, manufacture and obtain regulatory approvals and clearances for our new products, the success of those products would depend upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including: the availability of alternative products from our competitors; the price and reliability of our products relative to that of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; and our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. We are subject to complex and costly regulation. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. It can be costly and time consuming to obtain regulatory clearance and or approval to market a medical device or other product. Clearance and or approval might not be granted for a new or modified device or other product on a timely basis, if at all. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. In addition, we are subject to regulations covering manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising, and adverse event reporting that apply after we have obtained clearance or approval to sell a product. Our failure to maintain clearances or approvals for existing products, to obtain clearance or approval for new or modified products, or to adhere to regulations for manufacturing, labeling, advertising or adverse event reporting could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine a product manufactured or marketed by us does not meet our specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, we may seek to correct the product or withdraw the product from the market, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing oversight, including periodic inspection by governmental authorities. Compliance with production, safety, quality control and quality assurance regulations can be costly and time consuming. In addition, if our sales and marketing activities fail to comply with FDA regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. A number of companies in the healthcare industry have been the subject of enforcement actions related to their sales and marketing practices, including their relationships with doctors and off label promotion of products. If we were to become the subject of a similar enforcement action, it could result in negative publicity, penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally funded programs and or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many existing and potential customers for our products within the United States are members of GPOs and IDNs in an effort to reduce costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs across our product portfolio. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. 14 Table of Contents While having a contract with a GPO or IDN can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, it is no assurance that sales volume of those products will be maintained. The members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. In addition, our capital equipment products typically represent a sizeable initial capital expenditure for healthcare organizations. Changes in the budgets of these organizations, the timing of spending under these budgets and conflicting spending priorities, including changes resulting from adverse economic conditions, can have a significant effect on the demand for our capital equipment products and related services. In addition, the implementation of healthcare reform in the United States, which may reduce or eliminate the amount that healthcare organizations may be reimbursed for our capital equipment products and related services, could further impact demand. Any such decreases in expenditures by these healthcare facilities and decreases in demand for our capital equipment products and related services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Distributors of our products may begin to negotiate terms of sale more aggressively in an effort to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing or other terms of sale could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement distribution arrangements successfully, it could cause us to lose market share to our competitors. Outside the United States, we have experienced downward pricing pressure due to the concentration of purchasing power in centralized governmental healthcare authorities and increased efforts by such authorities to lower healthcare costs. Our failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability in these markets. Current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets and other macro economic challenges currently affecting the economy and the economic outlook of the United States and other parts of the world have had and we expect will continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause our customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and have caused and may continue to cause vendors to reduce their output or change terms of sales. We have observed certain hospitals delaying as well as prioritizing capital purchasing decisions, which has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse impact on our financial results into the foreseeable future. If our customers cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate or fail to improve, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Likewise, for similar reasons, vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. We also extend credit through an equipment leasing program for a substantial portion of sales to our dispensing product customers. We are subject to the risk that if these customers fail to pay or delay payment for the dispensing products they purchase from us, it could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs, defaults exceeding our expectations and an adverse impact on the cost or availability of financing. These risks related to our equipment leasing program may be exacerbated by a variety of factors, including adverse economic conditions, decreases in demand for our dispensing products and negative trends in the businesses of our leasing customers. Any inability of current and or potential customers to pay us for our products or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. In August 2010, we announced plans for various cost reduction and restructuring activities. These plans are expected to generate operating expense savings of approximately $85 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2011, increasing to annualized savings of $110 million to $120 million in fiscal year 2012 and beyond, through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions and other savings. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may take in the future, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. In addition, the costs associated with implementing our restructuring plan might exceed expectations, which could result in additional future charges. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain sufficient protection for our intellectual property, or if we are unable to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitiveness could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation is costly to defend and can result in significant damage awards, including treble damages under certain circumstances, and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. At any given time, we are involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. We can expect to face additional claims of patent infringement in the future. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Defects or failures associated with our products and or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, product recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off label uses or inadequate disclosure of product related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. These problems could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products and result in significant costs and negative publicity. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals or clearances. We may also voluntarily undertake a recall of our products or temporarily shut down production lines based on internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. 16 Table of Contents Our future operating results will depend on our ability to sustain an effective quality control system and effectively train and manage our employee base with respect to our quality system. Our quality system plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects and improving our products and services. While we have a network of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. A quality or safety issue may result in public warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions to halt manufacturing and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business. We are operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA related to our infusion pump business in the United States. We entered into a consent decree with the FDA in February 2007 related to our Alaris SE pumps, and in February 2009, we and the FDA amended the consent decree to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. In accordance with the amended consent decree, and in addition to the requirements of the original consent decree, we implemented a corrective action plan to bring the Alaris System and all other infusion pumps in use in the United States market into compliance, had our infusion pump facilities inspected by an independent expert and had our recall procedures and all ongoing recalls involving our infusion pumps inspected by an independent recall expert. In July 2010, the FDA notified us that we can proceed to the audit inspection phase of the amended consent decree, which includes the requirement to retain an independent expert to conduct periodic audits of our infusion pump facilities. The costs associated with these ongoing audits, and any actions that we may need to take resulting from these audits, could be significant. We have no reserve in connection with the amended consent decree to cover any future costs and expenses of compliance with the amended consent decree. As such, we may be obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. Moreover, the matters addressed in the amended consent decree could lead to negative publicity that could have an adverse impact on our business. The amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing, recall products and take other actions. We may also be required to pay monetary damages if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree. See note 13 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for more information. Any of the foregoing matters could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur product liability losses and other litigation liability. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in settlement payments and adjustments not covered by or in excess of insurance. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all because insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to successfully defend against product liability claims or maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. Legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business, or 17 Table of Contents we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages that exceed our insurance coverage, if any. Future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to litigation and regulatory investigations. In some cases, substantial non economic remedies or punitive damages may be sought. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance. Our business requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction and other events, which are beyond our control. Systems interruptions could reduce our ability to manufacture and provide service for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. The level of protection and disaster recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products, an inability to obtain key components or raw materials or an increase in the cost of key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost containment efforts of our customers and third party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases for key components or raw materials through higher prices to our customers. If the cost of key components or raw materials increases and we are unable fully to recover these increased costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability. We may engage in strategic transactions, including acquisitions, investments, or joint development agreements that may have an adverse effect on our business. We may pursue transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements and joint development agreements to expand our product offerings and geographic presence as part of our business strategy. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in May 2010 we acquired Medegen, a leading innovator in clinically differentiated needleless access valves and administration sets that deliver intravenous medication to patients. We may not complete future transactions in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or joint development agreement. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. We also could experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired company or business and potential adverse short term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit profile and or ratings and result in reduced availability of credit to us or in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. We could experience difficulties, expenditures, or other risks in integrating an acquired company, business, or technology, including, among others: diversion of management resources and focus from ongoing business matters; 18 Table of Contents retention of key employees following an acquisition; demands on our operational resources and financial and internal control systems; integration of an acquired companys corporate and administrative functions and personnel; liabilities of the acquired company, including litigation or other claims; and consolidation of research and development operations. In addition, we may face additional risks related to foreign acquisitions, including risks related to cultural and language differences and particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may engage in the divestiture of some of our non core businesses or product lines which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy involves assessing our portfolio of businesses with a view of divesting non core businesses and product lines that do not align with our objectives, such as the divestitures of our Audiology business in October 2009 and our Research Services business in May 2010. Any divestitures may result in a dilutive impact to our future earnings, as well as significant write offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. Among other initiatives, the legislation provides for a 2.3% annual excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, commencing in January 2013. This enacted excise tax may adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, we anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what ultimate effect of federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We intend to increase our investment in research and development activities, expand our sales and marketing activities, and may make acquisitions. Our ability to take these and other actions may be limited by our available liquidity, including our ability to access our foreign cash balances in a tax efficient manner. As a consequence, in the future, we may need to seek additional financing. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we lose an investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise 19 Table of Contents additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions and reduced lending activity, may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future. We cannot be sure that recent government initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non United States laws, regulations and customs. Sales to customers outside of the United States made up approximately 31% of our revenue in fiscal year 2010, and we expect that non United States sales will contribute to future growth. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: changes in non United States government programs; multiple non United States regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products; possible failure to comply with anti bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions; different local product preferences and product requirements; possible failure to comply with trade protection and restriction measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non United States operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures; minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and regulatory changes that may place our products at a disadvantage. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, we are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries such as the Euro, where we sell our products, our United States dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Additionally, we incur significant costs in foreign currencies and a fluctuation in those currencies value can negatively impact manufacturing and selling costs. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various United States federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. We cannot be sure that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Our reserves against disputed tax obligations may ultimately prove to be insufficient. The IRS currently has ongoing audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2007 for Cardinal Health. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agents Report for the fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between our foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries, which we have appealed. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest, which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding the application of the United States Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them. We are still in the audit stage with respect to the fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2006 and 2007 and have received several proposed notices of adjustment to date. The IRS has not yet commenced any IRS audit for our fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010. The tax matters agreement that we entered into with Cardinal Health specifies that all tax matters related to our businesses, including the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability, is our responsibility. Any such obligation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we regularly review our tax reserves and make adjustments to our reserves when appropriate. During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, we completed a detailed analysis of our tax reserves prompted by new information related to our potential tax positions, tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies. Based on this analysis, we determined it was appropriate to increase our existing tax reserves, which had a negative impact on our financial results and our effective tax rate. Accounting for tax reserves involves complex and subjective estimates by management, which can change over time based on new information or changing events or circumstances, including events or circumstances outside of our control. Although we believe that we have provided appropriate tax reserves for any potential tax exposures, we may not be fully reserved and it is possible that we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, including the full amount that the IRS is seeking in the appeals matter for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003 through 2005. Any future change in estimate could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See note 12 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for a discussion of the Notices of Proposed Adjustment and the change to our tax reserves. 21 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations. On July 1, 2009, we entered into two senior revolving credit facilities with an aggregate principal amount of $720 million, comprised of a $240 million 364 day revolving credit facility (maturing August 30, 2010) and a $480 million three year revolving credit facility (maturing August 31, 2012). In addition, on July 14, 2009, we offered and sold $1.4 billion of senior unsecured notes that were utilized to finance our separation from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. This significant amount of debt has important risks to us and our investors, including: requiring a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt as we are; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. In addition we may draw down our revolving credit facilities, which would have the effect of increasing our indebtedness. As a result of various restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our senior revolving credit facilities and our senior unsecured notes, our financial flexibility will be restricted in a number of ways. The agreements governing the senior revolving credit facilities subject us and our subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates, conduct businesses other than our current or related businesses, merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Our senior revolving credit facilities also require us to meet certain financial ratio tests on an ongoing basis that may require us to take action and reduce debt or act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot be sure that we will be able to meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under our senior revolving credit facilities. If an event of default under our senior revolving credit facilities or senior notes occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Risks Related to the Separation We have a limited operating history as a separate publicly traded company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our stock began trading publicly on September 1, 2009. The audited combined financial statements for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and the condensed consolidated and combined financial statements for periods ending 22 Table of Contents prior to September 1, 2009 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: prior to the separation, our business was operated by Cardinal Health as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Cardinal Health or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Cardinal Health for these and similar functions. These allocations are likely to be less than the comparable expenses we believe we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company; up until the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Cardinal Health. Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While we have entered into transition agreements that govern certain commercial and other relationships among us and Cardinal Health, those transitional arrangements may not fully capture the benefits our businesses have enjoyed as a result of being integrated with the other businesses of Cardinal Health. Now that we are a separate, publicly traded company, the loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; and up until the separation, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development and capital expenditures, had historically been satisfied as part of the corporate wide cash management policies of Cardinal Health. Given that we no longer receive capital from Cardinal Health under these cash management policies, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from Cardinal Health. If there is a determination that the separation is taxable for United States federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS ruling or tax opinions are incorrect or for any other reason, then Cardinal Health and its shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant United States federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. In connection with the separation, Cardinal Health received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, the contribution and the distribution qualified as a transaction that is tax free for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the Code). In addition, Cardinal Health received opinions of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, co counsel to Cardinal Health, to the effect that the contribution and the distribution qualified as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The ruling and opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Cardinal Health and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Cardinal Health and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct, have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain 23 Table of Contents significant changes in the stock ownership of Cardinal Health or us after the separation. If the separation is determined to be taxable for United States federal income tax purposes, Cardinal Health and its shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant United States federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions after the separation. To preserve the tax free treatment to Cardinal Health of the contribution and the distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Cardinal Health, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax free for United States federal income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including use of our common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions, which might increase the value of our business. The retention by Cardinal Health of shares of our common stock may further exacerbate these restrictions. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their former positions in Cardinal Health. The ownership by some of our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares, options, or other equity awards of Cardinal Health may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their former positions with Cardinal Health, certain of our executive officers and non employee directors own common shares of Cardinal Health, options to purchase common shares of Cardinal Health or other equity awards. The individual holdings of common shares, options to purchase common shares of Cardinal Health or other equity awards may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons total assets. Even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers ceased to be employees of Cardinal Health upon the separation, ownership by our directors and officers of common shares or options to purchase common shares of Cardinal Health, or any other equity awards, creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Cardinal Health than the decisions have for us. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation, and the separation may adversely affect our business. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. These benefits include the following: improving strategic planning, increasing management focus and streamlining decision making by providing us the flexibility to implement our unique strategic plans and to respond more effectively to our customer needs and the changing economic environment; allowing us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, as well as resolving competition for capital among Cardinal Health and its investors; and facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives, while at the same time creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons. There also can be no assurance that the separation will not adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been as a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, and it is possible that investors and securities analysts will not place a greater value on our business as an independent company than on our business as a subsidiary of Cardinal Health. 24 Table of Contents Cardinal Health may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the separation or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. In connection with the separation, we and Cardinal Health entered into various agreements, including a separation agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, intellectual property agreements and commercial agreements. The separation agreement, the tax matters agreement and employee matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and provide for indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. The transition services agreement sets forth certain services to be performed by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the separation. We will rely on Cardinal Health to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Cardinal Health does not satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain transaction agreements expire, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. We are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services Cardinal Health currently provides to us. We may not be successful in implementing these systems and services or in transitioning data from Cardinal Healths systems to ours. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales or distributions of our common stock could depress the market price for shares of our common stock. As a result of the separation, Cardinal Health distributed approximately 179.8 million shares of our common stock to its shareholders, all of which are freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless held by Cardinal Health or our affiliates as that term is defined by the federal securities laws. It is possible that some Cardinal Health shareholders, including possibly some of its largest shareholders, may sell our common stock received in the distribution for reasons such as that our business profile or market capitalization as a separate, publicly traded company does not fit their investment objectives. In addition, after completion of the separation, Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our total shares outstanding or approximately 41.4 million shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the private letter ruling from the IRS, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of such shares of our common stock that it owns as soon as practicable and consistent with its reasons for retaining such shares, but in no event later than five years after the distribution. Cardinal Health has since sold some of these shares, and in accordance with our obligations under the stockholders and registration rights agreement that we entered into with Cardinal Health, we filed a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate sales of our common stock by Cardinal Health. Any disposition by Cardinal Health, or any significant Cardinal Health shareholder, of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Your percentage of ownership in us may be diluted in the future. As with any publicly traded company, your percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 25 Table of Contents changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and domestic and foreign economic conditions. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three year term; a provision that stockholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that stockholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock are required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by laws relating to the number, term and election of our directors, the filling of board vacancies, stockholder notice procedures and the calling of special meetings of stockholders. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are located in a facility that we own in San Diego, California. At June 30, 2010, we owned or leased a total of approximately 4 million square feet of facility space worldwide to handle manufacturing, production, assembly, research, quality assurance testing, distribution, packaging, and administrative functions. At June 30, 2010, we had 20 manufacturing facilities of which 10 were located in the United States. We consider our operating facilities to be well maintained and suitable for the operations conducted in them. We periodically evaluate our operating properties, however, and we may make additions, improvements and consolidations, when appropriate. None of our facilities experienced any significant idle time during fiscal year 2010. The following table summarizes our facilities that are greater than 10,000 square feet by segment and by country as of June 30, 2010: Square Feet (in thousands) Number ofFacilities Leased Owned Critical Care Technologies* Australia 20 1 Belgium 11 1 Canada 30 1 France 19 1 Germany 126 4 India 12 1 Italy 124 1 Mexico 263 319 3 Netherlands 11 1 New Zealand 12 1 South Africa 16 1 Spain 13 1 Switzerland 22 1 United Kingdom 82 21 4 United States 1,067 472 14 Critical Care Technologies Total 1,704 936 36 Medical Technologies and Services* Australia 35 1 Dominican Republic 35 1 France 59 1 Germany 166 3 Ireland 29 1 United States 861 70 13 Medical Technologies and Services Total 1,062 193 20 Total 2,766 1,129 56 * Certain of the facilities included in the table are utilized by more than one segment. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See note 13 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for a summary of legal proceedings. ITEM 4. (REMOVED AND RESERVED) 27 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol CFN. A when issued trading market for our common stock began on the NYSE on August 21, 2009, and regular way trading of our common stock began on September 1, 2009. Prior to August 21, 2009, there was no public market for our common stock. As of August 11, 2010, there were 13,697 stockholders of record and 222,356,353 outstanding shares. Trading price data, as reported on the NYSE for the indicated periods is as follows: Fiscal 2010 1st Quarter1 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter High $ 22.42 $ 26.99 $ 28.33 $ 30.06 Low 18.32 20.65 24.23 22.67 1 Represents regular way trading activity from September 1, 2009 through September 30, 2009. Dividends We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance research and development, acquisitions and the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any dividends in the future by us will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Moreover, should we pay any dividends in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends. 28 Table of Contents Performance Graph This performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholders return on our common stock from September 1, 2009, when regular way trading in our common stock began on the NYSE, through June 30, 2010, with the comparable cumulative return of the S&P 500 index and S&P 500 Health Care index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our common stock and each index on September 1, 2009 and the reinvestment of all dividends paid. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. The following table shows total indexed return of stock price plus reinvestments of dividends, assuming an initial investment of $100 at September 1, 2009, for the indicated periods. 9/1/2009 9/30/2009 12/31/2009 3/31/2010 6/30/2010 CareFusion Corporation $ 100 $ 110 $ 126 $ 133 $ 114 S&P 500 Index 100 106 112 119 105 S&P 500 Health Care Index 100 102 112 115 102 29 Table of Contents Purchase of Equity Securities The following table contains information about our companys purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010: Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased1 AveragePrice Paidper Share Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedProgram Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that May YetBe Purchased Underthe PubliclyAnnounced Program April 1 30, 2010 106 $ 27.17 $ May 1 31, 2010 1,546 $ 25.68 June 1 30, 2010 1,644 $ 25.79 Total 3,296 $ 25.78 $ 1 Represents restricted stock awards surrendered by employees upon vesting to meet tax withholding obligations. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents our selected historical condensed consolidated and combined financial data. The condensed consolidated and combined statements of income data for each of the three fiscal years in the period ending June 30, 2010 and the condensed consolidated and combined balance sheet data as of June 30, 2010 and 2009 are derived from our audited consolidated and combined financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The condensed combined statements of income data for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 and the condensed combined balance sheet data as of June 30, 2008 and 2007 are derived from our audited combined financial statements that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The condensed combined balance sheet data for fiscal year 2006 is derived from our unaudited combined financial statements that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The unaudited combined financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited condensed consolidated and combined financial statements and, in the opinion of our management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the information set forth herein. 30 Table of Contents The selected historical condensed consolidated and combined financial and other operating data presented below should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated and combined financial statements and accompanying notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our consolidated and combined financial information may not be indicative of our future performance, and our financial information for periods prior to June 30, 2009 does not necessarily reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had we operated as an independent, publicly traded company during such periods presented, including changes that occurred in our operations and capitalization as a result of the separation from Cardinal Health and the distribution. At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30,1,2, 3 (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Statements of Income Data: Revenue $ 3,929 $ 3,595 $ 3,663 $ 2,659 $ 2,322 Gross Margin 1,866 1,731 1,767 1,296 1,132 Operating Income4 472 444 530 261 284 Income before Income Taxes 357 343 443 199 220 Income from Continuing Operations 171 290 333 168 162 Income from Discontinued Operations,Net of Tax Expense5 23 278 330 334 298 Net Income 194 568 663 502 460 Basic Earnings per Common Share: Continuing Operations 0.77 1.32 1.51 0.76 0.74 Discontinued Operations 0.10 1.26 1.49 1.52 1.35 Basic Earnings per Common Share 0.88 2.58 3.00 2.28 2.09 Diluted Earnings per Common Share: Continuing Operations 0.77 1.32 1.51 0.76 0.74 Discontinued Operations 0.10 1.26 1.49 1.52 1.35 Diluted Earnings per Common Share 0.87 2.58 3.00 2.28 2.09 Weighted Average Number of Common Share Outstanding6 Basic 221.5 220.5 220.5 220.5 220.5 Diluted 223.0 220.5 220.5 220.5 220.5 Balance Sheet Data: Total Assets $ 7,943 $ 8,349 $ 8,329 $ 7,876 $ 5,118 Long Term Obligations, less Current Portion and Other Short Term Borrowings7 1,386 1,159 1,539 1,268 1,209 Total Stockholders Equity or Parent Company Investment8 4,704 5,451 5,048 4,887 2,762 1 Amounts reflect business combinations for all periods presented. See note 3 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further information regarding the impact of acquisitions on fiscal years 2008 through 2010. The company completed the acquisition of Viasys in fiscal year 2007. The company did not complete any significant acquisitions in fiscal year 2006. 2 Amounts reflect restructuring and acquisition integration charges for all periods presented. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges were $19 million, $72 million, $35 million, $22 million and $23 million, in fiscal years 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 3 For the two months ended August 31, 2009 and during fiscal years 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Cardinal Health allocated to us general corporate expenses in the amount of $19 million, $406 million, $407 million, $428 million, and $219 million, respectively. Included within the $406 million, $407 million and $428 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, are $21 million, $23 million and $23 million, respectively, allocable to discontinued operations. None of the SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health in 2010 and 2006 was attributable to discontinued 31 Table of Contents operations. General corporate expenses include, but are not limited to, costs related to finance, legal, information technology, human resources, communications, ethics and compliance, shared services, employee benefits and incentives, and stock based compensation. Effective with the separation, we assumed responsibility for all of these functions and related costs. 4 During fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we incurred charges related to acquired in process research and development of $18 million and $85 million, respectively. 5 A summary of our discontinued operations is presented in note 2 in the notes to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. 6 For fiscal year 2009 and earlier, basic and diluted earnings per common share are computed using the number of common stock outstanding on August 31, 2009, the date on which CareFusion common stock was distributed to shareholders of Cardinal Health. 7 Includes the long term portion of debt allocated from Cardinal Health. Total debt allocated by Cardinal Health is as follows as of June 30 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 2006 $ 1,281 $ 1,597 $ 1,259 $ 1,124 8 On July 1, 2007, we adopted the accounting guidance associated with uncertain tax positions, the cumulative effect of which was a $35 million reduction in Parent Company Equity. Of the $35 million reduction in Parent Company Equity, $18 million is related to discontinued operations. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) presented below refer to and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to CareFusion Corporation, CareFusion, we, us, our and our company refer to CareFusion Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. References in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to Cardinal Health refers to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Separation from Cardinal Health, Inc. On September 29, 2008, Cardinal Health announced that it intended to separate its clinical and medical products businesses from the remainder of its businesses through a pro rata distribution of the common stock of an entity holding the assets and liabilities associated with the clinical and medical products businesses. CareFusion Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on January 14, 2009 for the purpose of holding such businesses. We completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the businesses comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us (the contribution), and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders (the distribution), based on a distribution ratio of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. Also in connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are reflected in the CareFusion financial information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K as discontinued operations. 32 Table of Contents In connection with the separation and other restructuring activities not related to the separation, we expected to incur one time expenditures (capital and expense) of between approximately $120 million to $130 million in fiscal year 2010. As of June 30, 2010, we have incurred approximately $120 million of expenditures. These expenditures primarily consist of employee related costs, costs to start up certain stand alone functions and information technology systems and other one time transaction related costs. Also included are approximately $22 million of capitalized fees associated with our bridge loan facility that were expensed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 related to the termination of that agreement on August 31, 2009. In fiscal year 2011, we expect to incur additional one time expenditures associated with the separation from Cardinal Health (capital and expense) of between approximately $80 million and $90 million, after which all substantive expenditures associated with standing up operations from the spinoff are expected to be complete. We have funded, and expect to continue funding these costs through cash from operations and cash on hand. The capital portion of these expenditures will be amortized over their useful lives and others have been expensed as incurred, depending on their nature. Additionally, we have incurred increased costs as an independent, publicly traded company, primarily as a result of higher charges than in the past from Cardinal Health for transition services and from establishing or expanding the corporate support for our businesses, including information technology, human resources, treasury, tax, risk management, accounting and financial reporting, investor relations, legal, procurement and other services. We believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses going forward. We do not anticipate that increased costs solely from becoming an independent, publicly traded company will have an adverse effect on our growth rate in the future beyond fiscal year 2010. We believe that the separation has allowed us, and will continue to allow us to: improve strategic planning, increase management focus and streamline decision making by providing us the flexibility to implement our unique strategic plans and to respond more effectively to our customer needs and the changing economic environment; allow us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, as well as resolving competition for capital among Cardinal Health and its investors; and facilitate incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhance employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives, while at the same time creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock. Overview We are a leading, global medical technology company with clinically proven and industry leading products and services designed to measurably improve the safety and quality of healthcare. We offer comprehensive product lines in the areas of IV infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments to customers in the United States and over 130 countries throughout the world. Our strategy is to enhance growth by focusing on healthcare safety and productivity, driving innovation and clinical differentiation, accelerating our global growth and pursing strategic opportunities. In furtherance of our strategy, we may seek to acquire entities that meet our objectives of driving innovation and global growth. Consistent with this strategy, in May 2010 we completed the acquisition of Medegen, a leading innovator in clinically differentiated needleless access valves and administration sets that deliver IV medication to patients. At the same time, our strategy also involves assessing our portfolio of businesses with a view of divesting non core businesses that do not align with our objectives, such as the divestitures of our Audiology business in October 2009 and our Research Services business in May 2010. See note 2 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further information. 33 Table of Contents Our primary customers in the United States include hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, clinics, long term care facilities and physician offices. For fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we generated revenue of $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, and income from continuing operations of $171 million in fiscal year 2010 and $290 million in fiscal year 2009. Approximately 31% of our fiscal year 2010 revenue was from customers outside of the United States. Our business consists of two reporting segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services. Critical Care Technologies includes our infusion, dispensing and respiratory care businesses that develop, manufacture and sell capital equipment and related dedicated and non dedicated disposables. Medical Technologies and Services includes our infection prevention and medical specialties products and services businesses that develop, manufacture and sell primarily single use, disposable products and reusable surgical instruments. Our capital equipment revenues are subject to a certain degree of seasonality that aligns to our customer capital equipment purchasing cycles. As a normal course of business, this seasonality would manifest itself with higher sales in our second and fourth quarters and lower sales in the first and third quarters of our fiscal year. Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations The Overall Global Economic Environment, Industry Growth and Trends Healthcare related industries are generally less susceptible than some other industries to fluctuations in the overall economic environment. However, some of our businesses rely on capital spending from our customers (primarily hospitals), which spending can be influenced by a variety of economic factors, including interest rates, access to financing and endowment fluctuations. Significant changes in these economic factors can affect the sales of our capital equipment products, such as infusion pumps, dispensing equipment and ventilators. Additionally, sales volumes for some of our businesses are dependent on hospital admissions. Changes in admissions due to difficult economic times can affect our results for surgical and single use products, such as infusion and respiratory disposable sets, surgical instruments and infection prevention products. In addition to the factors discussed above, we are also affected by uncertainties in the healthcare industry related to healthcare reform. Comprehensive healthcare reform was recently enacted in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Acts in March 2010. In addition, we anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. The uncertainties regarding the implementation and impact of the enacted healthcare reform measures, as well as other potential reform initiatives in the future, may have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we have observed certain hospitals delaying capital equipment purchase decisions, which had an adverse impact on our financial results for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. Moreover, while global healthcare expenditures are projected to grow over the coming years, reimbursement and funding for these expenditures is declining. These factors are creating both pressure and opportunity in the marketplace. We continue to believe that challenges exist in the capital equipment market from delays in hospital capital spending, as well as prioritization of capital spending. While we continue to see small signs of improvement, we anticipate it will take some time before significant market improvements are realized. Despite these continued challenges, our fiscal year 2010 sales increased 9% over fiscal year 2009. We believe that we are positioned strategically to benefit from increases in hospital capital equipment spending as the market recovers. 34 Table of Contents Primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy, we implemented a global workforce reduction in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which reduced our workforce by approximately 800 people over the course of fiscal years 2009 and 2010, and eliminated an additional 500 positions through normal attrition and by not filling open roles. We recorded a $12 million and $19 million pre tax restructuring charge for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with these actions. In fiscal year 2010 and beyond, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a benefit within our operating income due to reduced expenses as a result of these cost reduction initiatives. Additionally, on August 10, 2010, we announced a global restructuring program pursuant to which we expect to reduce our cost structure and streamline operations. As part of this restructuring, we anticipate reducing our global workforce by approximately 700 positions. We expect these restructuring activities to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2011. The pre tax expense and cash outlay for the program is estimated to be approximately $40 million to $50 million in the fiscal year 2011, primarily related to one time employee separation benefits and other costs. This program is expected to generate operating expense savings of approximately $85 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2011, increasing to annualized savings of $110 million to $120 million in fiscal year 2012 and beyond, through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions and other savings. Innovation and New Products Our business strategy relies significantly on innovation to develop and introduce new products and to differentiate our products from our competitors. Our investment expense in research and development during fiscal year 2010 was $159 million, or 4% of revenues. Excluding the revenues of our International Surgical Products business which requires no research and development investment, our fiscal year 2010 investment was 5% of revenues. Looking forward, we remain committed to producing a pipeline of innovative products to continue to support our growth strategies. We plan to increase our research and development expenditures with internal initiatives, as well as licensing or acquiring technology from third parties. Our internal and external investments will be focused on initiatives that we believe will offer the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability. With a significant investment in research and development, a strong focus on innovation and a well managed innovation process, we believe we can continue to innovate and grow. If, however, our future innovations are not successful in meeting customers needs or prove to be too costly versus their perceived benefit, our growth may slow. International and Foreign Exchange We sell our products in more than 130 countries and manufacture our products in nine countries in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Due to the global nature of our business, our revenue and expenses are influenced by foreign exchange movements. In fiscal year 2010, approximately 26% of our sales were in currencies other than the United States dollar. Increases or decreases in the value of the United States dollar compared to other currencies will affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into United States dollars. The percentage of fiscal year 2010 sales by major currencies was as follows: United States Dollar 74 % Euro 14 % British Pound 5 % All Other 7 % 100 % 35 Table of Contents Product Quality and Recalls Product quality, particularly in life saving and sustaining technologies, plays a critical role in our success. A quality or safety issue may result in public warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, recalls may negatively affect sales due to customer concerns about product quality. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our results were negatively affected by net charges for the cost of product recalls of $3 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. We are operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA, related to our infusion pump business in the United States. We entered into a consent decree with the FDA in February 2007 related to our Alaris SE pumps, and in February 2009, we and the FDA amended the consent decree (amended consent decree) to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303, Inc., our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. The amended consent decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories. While we remain subject to the amended consent decree, which includes the requirements of the consent decree, we have made substantial progress in our compliance efforts. In accordance with the consent decree, we reconditioned Alaris SE pumps that had been seized by the FDA, remediated Alaris SE pumps in use by customers, and had an independent expert inspect the Alaris SE pump facilities and provide a certification to the FDA as to compliance. As result of these efforts, in January 2010, we announced that the FDA had given us permission to resume the manufacturing and marketing of our Alaris SE pumps. In accordance with the amended consent decree, and in addition to the requirements of the original consent decree, we also implemented a corrective action plan to bring the Alaris System and all other infusion pumps in use in the United States market into compliance, had our infusion pump facilities inspected by an independent expert, and had our recall procedures and all ongoing recalls involving our infusion pumps inspected by an independent recall expert. In July 2010, the FDA notified us that we can proceed to the audit inspection phase of the amended consent decree, which includes the requirement to retain an independent expert to conduct periodic audits of our infusion pump facilities. The amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree, up to $15 million per year. We cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter, whether additional amounts will be incurred to resolve this matter, if any, or the matters ultimate impact on our business. We may be obligated to pay more or less than the amount that we reserved in connection with the amended consent decree because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. In response to infusion product recalls and the consent decree, we have made substantial investments in quality systems and quality personnel headcount over the past several years. While we believe that we have made significant improvements to our product quality and overall quality systems, further quality concerns, whether real or perceived, could adversely affect our results. Conversely, improving quality can be a competitive advantage and improve our results. Income Taxes Prior to the spinoff, our operations were included in Cardinal Healths United States federal and state tax returns or non United States jurisdictions tax returns. In connection with the spinoff, we and Cardinal Health entered into 36 Table of Contents a tax matters agreement that governs the parties respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes. The tax matters agreement generally provides that the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability related to our business is our responsibility. For the period July 1, 2009 through the spinoff date from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009, our operations were included in the consolidated income tax returns of Cardinal Health, however, income taxes were calculated and provided for CareFusion on a separate return basis for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. The amount of liabilities related to income taxes prior to the spinoff that were retained by Cardinal Health are reflected in Parent Company Investment in the consolidated statement of stockholders equity. Effective for the period beginning September 1, 2009, we will file stand alone income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction, various United States state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. Acquisitions Acquisitions have historically played a significant role in our growth. Significant acquisitions made in the last five years include VIASYS Healthcare Inc. (Viasys) in 2007, the assets of Enturia, Inc. (Enturia) in 2008 and Medegen in 2010. While we believe that the integration of Viasys and Enturia have generally been successful, our failure to integrate Medegen or other future acquisitions successfully might negatively affect our results. For further information regarding acquisitions, see note 3 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Acquired In Process Research and Development During 2010 we acquired and capitalized $45 million of in process research and development (IPR&D) through the acquisition of Medegen, which was valued based on a discounted cash flow method. Significant assumptions in valuing this IPR&D included timing of product deployment, revenues, margin, and associated discount rates. Effective July 1, 2009, IPR&D associated with business combinations is recorded in the balance sheet at fair value and tested for impairment annually until it is put into service. Prior to July 1, 2009, all acquired IPR&D was expensed immediately. See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. The $45 million of IPR&D associated with Medegen is related to certain products that are under development and are expected to be launched in the next three to four years. Completion of these products is subject to certain regulatory approvals and logistics surrounding manufacturing the end products cost effectively. The value of this IPR&D will be reviewed at least annually for impairment based on changing facts and circumstances; however, we do not anticipate that any portion will be impaired based on lack of ability to launch these products or other factors. Basis of Presentation The audited consolidated and combined financial statements reflect the consolidated operations of CareFusion Corporation and its subsidiaries as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to August 31, 2009. Periods presented prior to our August 31, 2009 spinoff from Cardinal Health have been prepared on a stand alone basis and are derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cardinal Health. Certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States market that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff and were part of the clinical and medical products business of Cardinal Health, were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff, and are presented in these financial statements as discontinued operations. Our audited consolidated and combined financial statements do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we operated as an independent, publicly traded company during the periods prior to the spinoff from Cardinal Health. See note 15 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further description of the transactions between Cardinal Health and us. 37 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009 Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenue $ 3,929 $ 3,595 $ 334 Cost of Products Sold 2,063 1,864 199 Gross Margin 1,866 1,731 135 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 1,228 1,055 173 Research and Development Expenses 159 160 (1 ) Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges 19 72 (53 ) Gain on the Sale of Assets (12 ) (12 ) Operating Income 472 444 28 Interest Expense and Other, Net 115 101 14 Income Before Income Taxes 357 343 14 Provision for Income Taxes 186 53 133 Income from Continuing Operations 171 290 (119 ) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 23 278 (255 ) Net Income $ 194 $ 568 $ (374 ) Revenue Revenue in our CCT segment increased by $215 million, or 9%, to $2,644 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue was attributable to increased sales in our respiratory products, primarily ventilators and disposables, as a result of emergency preparedness during fiscal year 2010, including the potential effects of influenza viruses. In addition, revenues increased as a result of the impact of commercial agreements executed in conjunction with our separation from Cardinal Health. Our infusion product revenues increased largely as a result of the net impact of the release of the shipping hold on the Alaris System that began in February 2009 and ended in July 2009 and the fulfillment of previously delayed customer orders that resulted from the shipping hold. However, infusion revenues were negatively impacted by delays in hospital capital spending, primarily for the first six months of fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Dispensing equipment revenues declined due to the impact of delays in hospital capital spending through the first three quarters of fiscal year 2010, as well as the way in which hospitals prioritize and allocate their spending. Revenue in our MT&S segment increased by $119 million, or 10%, to $1,285 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue increase is attributable to growth in our international surgical products business, including the impact of foreign exchange; our interventional specialties products business; and growth in our infection prevention products business. Growth in the international surgical products business is primarily the result of emergency preparedness, including the potential effects of influenza viruses and continued growth in the sale of custom sterile kits. Interventional specialties growth primarily resulted from increased sales of chronic drainage products. Gross Margin and Cost of Products Sold Gross margin increased $135 million, or 8%, to $1,866 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, gross margin was 48% of revenue for fiscal year 2010 and 2009. 38 Table of Contents The increase in gross margin is primarily attributable to sales growth, combined with the favorable impacts in manufacturing costs. Manufacturing savings resulting from: (a) improved utilization of raw materials; (b) the impact of relocating certain of our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers to lower cost jurisdictions; (c) favorable overhead absorption as a result of increased volume; and (d) controlled overhead spending. Also affecting the increase were infusion product recall charges for $18 million that impacted the quarter ended March 31, 2009 associated with the Alaris System shipping hold. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained flat year over year. This was the result of the manufacturing efficiencies noted above, offset by a product mix that includes a higher proportion of respiratory sales, which generally have lower margins than our other capital equipment businesses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $173 million, or 16%, to $1,228 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in SG&A is attributable to incremental operating costs related to standing up certain corporate functions; one time costs associated with our spinoff from Cardinal Health of $59 million; and increases in discretionary variable compensation and share based compensation of $84 million. Partially offsetting these increases are the favorable impacts of our March 2009 global workforce reduction program of $56 million. SG&A expenses for fiscal year 2009 include allocated costs to us by Cardinal Health of $406 million. Included within the $406 million is $21 million of expenses associated with discontinued operations. Allocated SG&A expenses include expenses for shared functions, including management, finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal, legislative affairs and management incentive plan expenses. SG&A expenses historically allocated to us are not likely to be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly traded company for the periods presented or for future periods following our separation from Cardinal Health. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges Restructuring and acquisition integration charges decreased $53 million, or 74%, to $19 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. During fiscal year 2009, we launched a series of restructuring programs with the goal to provide improved management focus through the re alignment of the management structure and lowering its cost structure through a reduction in global workforce. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded $9 million of expense associated with these restructuring programs. In total, we recorded $66 million of expense for these restructuring programs, and as of March 31, 2010, all major activities of these programs have been completed. During fiscal year 2009, restructuring charges were primarily comprised of employee related and facility exit restructuring charges of $60 million, and acquisition integration expenses of $12 million were primarily related to our 2007 acquisition of Viasys. Gain on the Sale of Assets In May 2010, we completed the sale of our Research Services business, which was historically part of our MT&S segment, for $81 million in cash. Including estimated working capital adjustments as part of the definitive agreement, the pre tax gain related to the disposition was approximately $12 million, or $1 million loss after tax. Income tax expense associated with the transaction was impacted by approximately $24 million of goodwill assigned to the disposition that was not deductible for tax purposes. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions which includes potential adjustments for the final working capital. See note 2 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Operating Income Operating income for fiscal year 2010 increased $28 million, or 6%, to $472 million. The increase in operating income was due to a reduction of restructuring and acquisition integration charges, the pre tax gain on the sale of 39 Table of Contents our Research Services business, and higher sales and associated margin. Partially offsetting these increases are higher SG&A expenses, primarily associated with one time and incremental expenses related to standing up as a public company. We have, and expect to continue to, experience benefits from our restructuring programs initiated in March 2009. Segment profit in our CCT reportable segment increased by $41 million, or 12%, to $395 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit is attributable to higher sales in our infusion and respiratory businesses, decreases in restructuring and integration charges, and a decrease in infusion product recall charges relative to the $18 million product recall charge recorded for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Segment profit in our MT&S reportable segment decreased by $25 million, or 28%, to $65 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in segment profit is primarily attributable to the timing and increase of SG&A expenses. The decreases were partially offset by incremental gross margin and reductions in restructuring and acquisition integration expenses. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other, net for fiscal year 2010 increased $14 million, or 14%, to $115 million. The increase is attributable to a one time write off of debt issuance and related costs of $22 million associated with the bridge loan facility, which was terminated on August 31, 2009, and to a lesser extent, the difference in interest expense for our outstanding senior notes compared to interest expense associated with the allocated debt from Cardinal Health in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by decreases in foreign currency exchange losses of $22 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. In general, gains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rates are related to the remeasurement of receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds the receivable or payable. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for fiscal year 2010 increased $133 million to $186 million compared to the prior fiscal year. The effective tax rate for fiscal year 2010 was 52.1% compared to 15.5% for fiscal year 2009. The change in expense and effective tax rates in aggregate were primarily the result of charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of approximately $71 million and benefits recorded during fiscal year 2009 of approximately $45 million. During fiscal year 2010, we completed a detailed analysis of our tax reserves prompted by new information related to our potential tax positions, tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies. For this analysis, we retained third party advisors to assist in assessing whether, based on the new information, our tax risks had changed, and whether additional reserves in excess of those already recorded were necessary. This change in estimate of approximately $58 million was recorded as a charge to net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Also during fiscal year 2010, the disposition of our Research Services business resulted in additional tax expense of approximately $13 million, primarily due to with non deductible goodwill associated with the disposition. During fiscal year 2009, a claim was filed by Cardinal Health with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to amend the filing position taken on its United States federal income tax return for fiscal years 2004 through 2006 related to a secured loan transaction involving certain of our sales type lease receivables. Since our income taxes are presented on a separate return basis, we recognized a $24 million net tax benefit in the quarter ended March 31, 2009, related to this item. Also during fiscal year 2009, a benefit of approximately $21 million was recorded due to the impact of changes in state tax laws and a change in the estimated values of our deferred income tax liabilities due to the separation from Cardinal Health. 40 Table of Contents Generally, fluctuations in our effective tax rate are primarily due to changes within international and state effective tax rates resulting from our business mix and changes in the tax impact of restructuring and acquisition integration charges and other discrete items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item. The provision for income tax amounts historically calculated is not likely to be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly traded company for the periods presented or for future periods following the separation. For additional detail regarding the provision for income taxes, see note 12 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for fiscal year 2010 decreased 92% to $23 million compared to the prior fiscal year. Included in discontinued operations for fiscal year 2010 and 2009 are (a) certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff and were part of the clinical and medical products business of Cardinal Health, and were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff; and (b) the Audiology business, which produces and markets hearing diagnostic equipment, which was sold on October 1, 2009. The businesses retained by Cardinal Health have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods reported through the date of our spinoff of August 31, 2009. The net income earned by the businesses retained by Cardinal Health upon the spinoff is included within our income from discontinued operations until the date of our spinoff of August 31, 2009, or two months in fiscal year 2010; whereas the net income earned by these businesses for the entire fiscal year 2009 is included within our income from discontinued operations for that same period. The significant decrease in our income from discontinued operations is primarily due to the difference in the number of periods the businesses retained by Cardinal Health were included within our results in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Additionally, during fiscal year 2010, we recorded losses associated with the sale of the Audiology business. See note 2 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2008 Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenue $ 3,595 $ 3,663 $ (68 ) Cost of Products Sold 1,864 1,896 (32 ) Gross Margin 1,731 1,767 (36 ) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 1,055 1,027 28 Research and Development Expenses 160 157 3 Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges 72 35 37 Acquired In Process Research and Development 18 (18 ) Operating Income 444 530 (86 ) Interest Expense and Other, Net 101 87 14 Income Before Income Tax 343 443 (100 ) Provision for Income Tax 53 110 (57 ) Income from Continuing Operations 290 333 (43 ) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 278 330 (52 ) Net Income $ 568 $ 663 $ (95 ) 41 Table of Contents Revenue Total revenue decreased by $68 million, or 2%, to $3,595 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue decline resulted from lower sales volume in our capital equipment businesses ($149 million), as a result of the deferral of capital spending by hospitals and a ship hold on our Alaris infusion devices. Hospitals delayed their capital spending during fiscal year 2009 due to the decline in the overall global economic environment, which we believe created uncertainty in regards to access to capital markets and reduced the size of hospital endowments that are utilized to provide funding for capital equipment products. For several months of fiscal year 2009, we also placed a hold on shipping the Alaris PCA module and related Alaris PC Unit while we sought FDA clearance for a software correction under the corrective action plan, which we received in July 2009. As a result of these items, the volume of our capital equipment sales decreased, and overall capital goods products revenues decreased. Additionally, revenue declined due to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. Sales transactions denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar comprised approximately 26% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2009, of which the majority is denominated in euros and British pounds. On average during fiscal year 2009, the United States dollar strengthened relative to the euro and British pound by approximately 7% and 26%, respectively. The revenue declines were partially offset by revenue increases associated with acquisitions ($170 million), primarily due to our acquisition of Enturia in fiscal year 2008; international growth, exclusive of effects of foreign exchange; and new products. Our CCT segment revenue decreased $174 million, or 7%, to $2,429 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due primarily to lower sales volume of capital equipment due to delays in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold discussed above and the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by increases in revenues associated with new products, largely due to new respiratory ventilator equipment products. Our MT&S segment revenue increased $106 million, or 10%, to $1,166 million, for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue increase was primarily due to acquisitions (approximately $170 million); and international revenue growth, excluding effects of foreign exchange rates. These increases were partially offset by the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, and a decline in diagnostic capital equipment and instrument revenues. Gross Margin and Cost of Products Sold Gross margin decreased $36 million, or 2%, to $1,731 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 48% in both fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2009, gross margin was affected by a variety of offsetting factors, including: international pricing pressure; the effects of foreign exchange, in which the benefits of changes in foreign exchange rates associated with our procurement transactions were more than outweighed by unfavorable impacts associated with sales transactions; the adverse effects of the under utilization of our capital equipment manufacturing facilities; and increased sales volumes in certain of our infection prevention and skin preparation businesses and a shift in sales mix favoring disposable products within our CCT segment due to the decline in sales volume of capital equipment. Our infection prevention, skin preparation, and disposable products each recognize higher margins than our other product offerings. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1,055 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. SG&A expenses increased primarily due to acquisitions ($50 million), additional investments in product 42 Table of Contents quality processes ($11 million), and additional provisions for bad debts ($4 million). These increases were partially offset by a decrease due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($25 million) and a decrease in management incentive compensation expense ($19 million). SG&A expenses allocated by Cardinal Health to us during the fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were $406 million and $407 million, respectively. Included within the $406 million and $407 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 are $21 million and $23 million, respectively, associated with discontinued operations. Allocated SG&A expenses include expenses for shared functions, including management, finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal, legislative affairs and management incentive plan expenses. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges Restructuring and acquisition integration charges increased $37 million, or 106%, to $72 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal year 2009 were primarily comprised of integration expenses associated with Viasys ($9 million); employee related restructuring costs ($40 million); and facility exit costs ($20 million). As previously mentioned, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we announced a cost reduction initiative primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy. We recorded a $19 million pre tax restructuring charge associated with this cost reduction initiative, included within employee related restructuring costs identified above. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal year 2008 were primarily comprised of integration costs associated with our acquisition of Viasys and restructuring costs related to the closure of a replenishment center, headcount reductions within existing operations and other facility exit costs. Acquired In process Research and Development In connection with our acquisition of certain businesses in fiscal year 2008, we purchased IPR&D. At the time of acquisition, these projects had not yet achieved technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, the estimated fair value of the IPR&D was expensed at the acquisition date, under the accounting rules of fiscal year 2009 and prior years. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded charges to write off our preliminary estimates of fair values of the IPR&D associated with the Enturia acquisition ($18 million), other minor acquisitions ($25 million), and adjusted downward the IPR&D charges initially recorded in fiscal year 2007 associated with the Viasys acquisition based on the final valuation of its related IPR&D in fiscal year 2008 ($25 million). Operating Income Operating income decreased $86 million, or 16%, to $444 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Our CCT segment profit decreased $158 million, or 31%, to $354 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in segment profit was primarily a result of a lower sales volume of capital equipment due to the delay in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold ($85 million), the unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($22 million) and the impact of the restructuring charges discussed previously. Our MT&S segment profit increased $72 million to $90 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit was primarily due to the profitability of prior year acquisitions ($51 million) and the impact of the change in IPR&D charges in fiscal year 2009 ($18 million). These increases were partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($11 million) and the impact of the restructuring charges discussed previously. 43 Table of Contents Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other, net increased $14 million, or 16%, to $101 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in interest expense and other, net was primarily the result of increases in losses due to changes in foreign exchange rates ($32 million), partially offset by a reduction in interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health ($8 million). Interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health totaled $80 million and $88 million in fiscal year 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in allocated interest expense was primarily due to lower levels of debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health. See note 11 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further information. Provision for Income Taxes For fiscal year 2009, our provision for income taxes decreased $57 million to $53 million, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in income tax expense was due to a reduction in income before income taxes, a decrease related to a claim filed with the IRS to amend our position relative to sales type lease transactions previously discussed ($24 million), and a decrease for the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the impact of internal reorganizations ($21 million). These decreases in tax are partially offset by an unfavorable tax adjustment for accrued interest related to proposed tax assessments and the impact of nondeductible IPR&D charges in fiscal year 2008. As a result of this activity, our effective tax rate decreased to 15.5% in fiscal year 2009 from 24.8% in fiscal year 2008. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense decreased $52 million, or 16%, to $278 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was attributable to a gross margin decline ($28 million) due to a shift in product mix towards lower margin products and increases in cost of petroleum based raw materials; the net effect of increased SG&A expenses ($23 million); a gain on the sale of a business unit in fiscal year 2008 ($11 million); and an increase in tax expense ($24 million). These decreases were partially offset by an increase in royalty income ($44 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Following the spinoff, our capital structure, long term capital commitments and sources of liquidity changed significantly from when our business operations were a component of Cardinal Health. We no longer receive cash from Cardinal Health to fund our operating or investing needs. Instead, our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations, the overall capacity and terms of our financing arrangements, and our access to the capital markets. Historically, we have generated, and expect to continue to generate, positive cash flow from operations. Cash flow from operations primarily represents inflows from net income (adjusted for depreciation and other non cash items) and outflows from investment in sales type leases entered into, as we sell and install dispensing equipment, and other increases in working capital needed to grow the business. Cash flows from investing activities represent our investment in intellectual property and capital equipment required to grow our business, as well as acquisitions. Cash flows from financing activities are primarily related to the issuance of debt associated with our spinoff from Cardinal Health. Prior to our spinoff, cash flows from financing activities were primarily related to changes in Cardinal Healths investment in us. In the past, Cardinal Health would fund our operating and investing activities as needed and transfer our excess cash at its discretion. Transfers of cash both to and from Cardinal Healths cash management system are reflected as a component of Parent Company Investment within Parent Company Equity in the consolidated and combined balance sheets. 44 Table of Contents Our cash balance at June 30, 2010 was $1,019 million. Of this balance, $896 million is held outside of the United States and is denominated in United States dollars as well as other currencies. We believe that our current domestic cash flow from operations and domestic cash balances are sufficient to meet domestic operating needs. However, should our domestic cash needs exceed our current or future domestic cash flows, we may be required to repatriate foreign cash or utilize our revolving credit facilities, both of which would result in increased expense. We believe that our future cash from operations together with our access to funds available under our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities and the capital markets will provide adequate resources to fund both short term and long term operating requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions and new business development activities. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Cash Flow Provided by/(Used in) Operating Activities $ 706 $ 515 $ 561 Investing Activities $ (256 ) $ (133 ) $ (788 ) Financing Activities $ 21 $ (186 ) $ 133 Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $191 million to $706 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase was due to increased cash flows associated with other accrued liabilities and operating items ($274 million), primarily related to an increase in uncertain tax position reserves, the timing of recognition of certain deferred tax items through our current tax provision and taxes payable, and accruals for employee related liabilities; increases in cash flows associated with accounts payable ($81 million), primarily due to longer payment cycles at the end of fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 to enhance our cash positions; and the impacts of converting inventory balances ($30 million), primarily related to the release of the shipping hold on the Alaris System. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in cash flows associated with accounts receivable ($60 million). The decrease in cash flow associated with accounts receivable is primarily a result of longer collection periods with Cardinal Health. Prior to the spinoff, accounts receivables from Cardinal Health were considered to be settled for cash immediately, as they were intercompany balances. Based on our focused efforts to improve collections surrounding accounts receivable over the course of fiscal year 2010, we have experienced increased collection rates and lower days outstanding associated with accounts receivable activity. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations increased $123 million to $256 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to the purchase of Medegen ($224 million) and increases in capital expenditures ($12 million). The increase was partially offset by proceeds from the divestitures of our Research Services business ($81 million) and Audiology business ($27 million). Within financing activities, we incurred indebtedness with a face value of $1.4 billion in connection with the spinoff from Cardinal Health. On August 31, 2009, we used the proceeds of this debt of $1.374 billion to pay a dividend to Cardinal Health, and as a result, those proceeds were not available for our business needs. Financing activities prior to fiscal year 2010 were primarily related to cash receipts and disbursements between us and Cardinal Health to fund business operations as a component of Cardinal Health. Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $46 million to $515 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income, after 45 Table of Contents adjustments for non cash items ($163 million) and a reduction in cash flows related to other accrued liabilities and operating items ($86 million); partially offset by increased cash flows from collections of accounts receivable ($96 million) and sales type capital leases ($88 million). Net cash used in investing activities decreased $655 million to $133 million compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily related to the cash purchase price of Enturia in fiscal year 2008 ($476 million) and reductions in capital expenditures ($71 million). The net cash used in financing for both years was primarily the result of net cash transfers to and from Cardinal Health. Capital Resources Senior Unsecured Notes. On July 14, 2009, we offered and sold $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and received net proceeds of $1.374 billion. As part of the spinoff, the net proceeds were subsequently distributed as a dividend payment to Cardinal Health. The indenture for the senior notes limits our ability to incur certain secured debt and enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. In accordance with the indenture, we may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a price that would equal or exceed the outstanding principal balance, as defined. In addition, if we undergo a change of control and experience a below investment grade rating event, we may be required to repurchase all of the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal balance plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the issuance of the senior notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the notes pursuant to which we agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC to conduct an exchange offer for the notes. In accordance with the registration rights agreement, we filed a Form S 4 with the SEC and conducted an exchange offer for the notes, which we completed on February 4, 2010. The purpose of the exchange offer was to allow the holders of the senior notes, which were issued in a private placement transaction and were subject to transfer restrictions, to exchange their notes for new notes that did not have these restrictions and are registered under the Securities Act. All of the outstanding senior notes were exchanged in the exchange offer. Following the exchange offer, we continue to have $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding. Revolving Credit Facilities. On July 1, 2009, we entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit facilities with an aggregate available principal amount of $720 million, allocated as follows: $240 million 364 day revolving credit facility (maturing August 30, 2010); and $480 million three year revolving credit facility (maturing August 31, 2012) Borrowings under the 364 day revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or alternate base rate (ABR), in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.2% to 3.5% based upon CareFusions debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.2% to 2.5% based upon CareFusions debt ratings. At June 30, 2010, we had no amounts outstanding under our 364 day revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the three year revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the LIBOR or the alternate base rate ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.1% to 3.375% depending on CareFusions debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.1% to 2.375% depending on CareFusions debt ratings. The commitments under the three year revolving credit facility are subject to increase, upon our request and consent by the lenders, by up to an aggregate of $30 million. Subject to customary covenants, the three year revolving credit facility allows for the stated borrowing amount, including $25 million of standby letters of credit. At June 30, 2010, we had no amounts outstanding under our three year revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facilities contain several customary covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness, investments, dispositions, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, change 46 Table of Contents in control and sale and lease back transactions. The revolving credit facilities also require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We were in compliance with all of our revolving credit agreement covenants at June 30, 2010. All obligations under the revolving credit facilities are guaranteed by each of our existing and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries. We may enter into new revolving facilities in the future. However, the expiration of the 364 day facility on August 30, 2010 is not expected to have a negative impact on our ability to access adequate financing in the future. Bridge Loan Facility. On July 1, 2009, we entered into a senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the bridge loan facility) to provide financing for an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, with a term of 364 days from the date of any funding, for payment of the dividend to Cardinal Health as part of our spinoff. As the senior unsecured note offering was successfully completed prior to the separation, those proceeds were used to finance the payment of the dividend to Cardinal Health in lieu of drawing the bridge loan facility. As a result, the bridge loan facility was terminated on August 31, 2009. In connection with this termination, we expensed approximately $22 million of capitalized fees to interest expense in the quarter ended September 30, 2009. Dividends We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance research and development, acquisitions and the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any dividends in the future by us will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Moreover, should we pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2010, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Long Term Debt1 $ 3 $ 250 $ 450 $ 700 $ 1,403 Capital Lease Obligations2 1 2 3 Other Long Term Liabilities3 61 32 10 7 110 Interest on Long Term Debt4 78 152 126 204 560 Operating Leases5 44 71 49 33 197 Purchase Obligations6 195 12 3 4 214 Total Financial Obligations $ 382 $ 519 $ 638 $ 948 $ 2,487 1 Represents maturities of our long term debt obligations, excluding capital lease obligations described below, as described in note 11 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Amounts are presented gross of debt purchase discounts of $16 million at June 30, 2010. 2 Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long term debt in the consolidated and combined balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. 3 Represents cash outflows by period for certain of our long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits of $269 million and deferred taxes of $671 million, tax associated accruals of $94 million, deferred compensation obligations of $9 million and other long term liabilities of $7 million, have been excluded from the table above because of the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflow. See note 12 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information. 47 Table of Contents 4 Interest obligation is calculated based on each outstanding debt stated or coupon rate, or existing variable rate as of June 30, 2010, as applicable. 5 Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in note 13 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. 6 Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2010, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our audited consolidated and combined financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The preparation of these audited consolidated and combined financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant effect on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience, trends, and managements judgment. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and believe our estimates to be reasonable. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing our audited consolidated and combined financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see note 1 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue through the sale and lease of equipment, software, services, medical products, supplies, and the income associated with the financing of our equipment leases. We recognize revenue when: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; product delivery has occurred or the services have been rendered; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectability is reasonably assured. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends on a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized may involve subjective or complex judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. The significant judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and could result in material differences under other assumptions and conditions are those described below. 48 Table of Contents Evaluation of the Significance of Embedded Software We sell and lease products with embedded software. We regularly review these products to determine whether embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole. If the embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole, the product is classified as a software product. In classifying our products, we consider the following characteristics to be indicators that embedded software is more than incidental to the product as whole: software is a significant focus of the marketing effort or the software application is sold separately; significant internally developed software costs have been incurred; and if we provide telephone support, bug fixes, and or unspecified upgrades specific to the embedded software. The evaluation process is often complex and subject to significant judgment as the products exhibit varying degrees of the indicators identified above, such as: certain products are marketed as systems or solutions wherein it is implied, but not explicitly stated within marketing and sales collateral, that embedded software provides the basis for significant functionalities identified within the marketing efforts; internal software development costs are incurred during the product development process; separately priced extended warranty services provide post installation support relative to repair parts and services and also include telephone support and bug fixes for the software embedded within the products; and we are required by law to provide medical safety related bug fixes for products with embedded software elements. We classify our infusion products, when sold with safety software, patient identification products, and certain diagnostic equipment as software. We have determined the embedded software within our other products, primarily our dispensing and respiratory products, is incidental to the products as a whole. Those products are therefore not classified as software. Revenue Recognition for Leases Our accounting for leases involves specific determinations under applicable lease accounting standards, which often involve complex and prescriptive provisions. If a lease qualifies as a sales type capital lease, equipment revenue is recognized upon delivery or installation of the equipment as opposed to ratably over the lease term. Therefore, our lease classification procedures significantly affect the timing of revenue recognition. The critical element considered by us in determining the classification of our lease transactions is the fair value of the leased equipment, including its estimated fair value at the inception and conclusion of the lease, and the estimated useful life of our equipment. For the purposes of determining the fair value of leased equipment at the inception of the lease, we apply the percentage discount from rental list prices provided within the lease transaction against the purchase list price. This methodology assumes that purchase customers are provided similar discounts as lease customers. Periodically, we review discount levels provided to purchase customers and lease customers to validate this assumption. We estimate the useful life of our equipment based upon actual historical data which identifies the length of time our equipment has been in place and in service at customer facilities. Multiple Element Arrangements The majority of our transactions qualify as multiple element arrangements. We use the relative fair value method to allocate contract proceeds to each unit of accounting, which are then individually recognized to revenue. To the extent that fair value evidence does not exist for delivered elements of the transaction, we apply the residual method. 49 Table of Contents Determination as to whether fair value exists and the valuation of our fair value estimates are critical to both the relative fair value method and residual method. The determination of fair value estimates associated with our products and services is generally based on historical evidence of sales of the same product in stand alone transactions and the contract renewal prices for post contract support and separately priced extended warranty services. For software and software related products, evidence used in the determination of fair value estimates are based solely on vendor specific objective evidence. Third party fair value evidence may be used for non software products. Different conclusions as to the existence and valuation of fair value estimates may significantly affect the timing and valuation of revenue recognition, the classification of leasing transactions, and the classification of revenue as product, service, rental or other income. It is impossible to determine the effects of potential different conclusions as they relate to the existence or valuation of fair value estimates. We will adopt Accounting Standards Updates (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU 2009 14 Certain Revenue Arrangements That Includes Software Elements on July 1, 2010. The adoption of these standards will cause the significant majority of our products, including infusion, patient identification, and diagnostic equipment to be excluded from the scope of software revenue recognition provisions. Additionally, we will utilize the relative selling price method in allocating contractual proceeds to units of accounting in multiple element arrangements. Neither the reclassification of our infusion, patient identification and diagnostic equipment, nor the use of the relative selling price method is anticipated to result in a significant change in the identification of units of accounting, or the timing or amount of our revenues. See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets, which requires management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. Current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is affected by purchase price allocations and by the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. We believe the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the status of the acquired companys research and development projects is assessed to determine the existence of IPR&D. In connection with certain acquisitions, we are required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D, which requires selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assesses the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs are not assigned to IPR&D unless future development is probable. Beginning with acquisitions completed on or after July 1, 2009, IPR&D is recorded as an unamortized intangible asset until the underlying products are either completed and put into service, which would require commencing amortization over the estimated product life, or determining the products will not complete development, which would require impairing the portion of IPR&D associated with that product. Until either determination is made, IPR&D is subject to periodic impairment review, with impairments, if any, expensed to our consolidated and combined statement of income. During fiscal year 2010, we completed the acquisition of Medegen, which resulted in approximately $45 million of IPR&D associated with new products under development being recorded as an intangible asset. The timing and recognition of both the in service date for these products as well as the potential of impairment involves significant judgment. 50 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangibles Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. Intangibles with definite lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset might not be recoverable. In conducting the annual impairment test of our goodwill, the fair value of our reporting units is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. We perform our impairment testing at the operating segment level. There are no fluid active or inactive markets for our operating segments to derive approximate fair values, and accordingly, the valuation process is similar to the valuation of a closely held company and considers valuation methods that are income based and market based. Our income based approach is a discounted cash flow method which utilizes an estimated discount rate to the projected after tax cash flows for the operating segment. Our market based approach utilizes an estimated market based multiple to the operating segments estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The results of the income based and market based approaches are equally weighted to arrive at the total estimated fair value for each operating segment. Based on our annual impairment test as of April 1, 2010, we did not record any goodwill impairments. The application of valuation methods requires significant judgment regarding appropriate inputs and assumptions and results in our best estimate of the fair value of an operating segment. As with any estimate, inputs and assumptions can be subject to varying degrees of uncertainty. Informed market participants can differ in their perception of value for a reporting unit. It is possible that one of our operating segments could experience a goodwill impairment in the future. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges We separately identify restructuring and acquisition integration charges in SG&A expenses. A restructuring activity is a program whereby we fundamentally change our operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Acquisition integration charges are activities and costs to integrate acquired companies into the operations of our existing activities, including such functions as selling, manufacturing, information systems, and corporate related functions. The majority of the charges related to restructuring and acquisition integration can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments, and other integration costs. Employee related costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of our assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. See note 5 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information. Provision for Income Taxes Prior to August 31, 2009, our income taxes as presented are calculated on a separate tax return basis, although our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Healths United States federal and state tax returns or non Unites States jurisdictions tax returns. Cardinal Healths global tax model was developed based on its entire portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, our tax results for periods prior to August 31, 2009 are not necessarily reflective of the results that we would have generated on a stand alone basis. 51 Table of Contents With the exception of certain dedicated foreign entities for periods prior to August 31, 2009, we did not maintain taxes payable to/from Cardinal Health, and we instead were deemed to settle the annual current tax balances immediately with the legal tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in Parent Company Investment in the consolidated and combined balance sheets. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and measurement of uncertain tax positions reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. We had deferred income tax assets before valuation allowances of $350 million and $277 million as of June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, respectively. We also had deferred income tax liabilities of $859 million and $811 million as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At June 30, 2010, we had gross federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards of $3 million, $141 million and $31 million, respectively, the tax effect of which is an aggregate deferred tax asset of $16 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least three years or have an indefinite carryforward period. The valuation allowance of $6 million at June 30, 2010 applies to certain federal, international, and state and local carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance would be applied against income tax expense. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and measurement of uncertain tax positions are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate, and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agents Report for the tax years 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest, which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding its application of the United States Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them. We are still in the audit stage with respect to the fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2006 and 2007 and have received several proposed notices of adjustment to date. The IRS has not yet commenced any IRS audit for our fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010. We believe that we have provided adequate contingent tax reserves for these matters. The tax matters agreement generally provides that the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability related to our business is our responsibility. During fiscal year 2010, we completed a detailed analysis of our tax reserves prompted by new information related to our potential tax positions, tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies. For this analysis, we retained third party advisors to assist in assessing whether, based on the new information, our tax risks had changed, and whether additional reserves in excess of those already recorded were necessary. This change in estimate of approximately $58 million was recorded as a charge to net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. See note 12 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. The proper transfer price to be charged among subsidiaries and the value of intellectual property transferred among subsidiaries are subjective determinations that depend on the specific facts and circumstances at issue. Management estimated a contingent tax reserve for these issues by first concluding that our positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The reserve was then determined by evaluating and weighing the technical merits of alternative valuation methodologies against each other and concluding on the positions that provide the largest amount of 52 Table of Contents tax benefit that is more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate resolution. To the extent there are any administrative or case law developments that provide additional evidence in favor or against the valuation methodologies utilized, the contingent tax reserve will be adjusted in the period that such developments occur. Since it is not currently possible to predict whether and when any of these events will occur, we are unable to quantify potential changes. Although we believe that we have provided an appropriate contingent tax reserve for these matters, we may not be fully reserved for this matter and it is possible that we may be obligated to pay an amount in excess of the reserve, including the full amount that the IRS is seeking. Any such obligation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We accrue for contingencies related to litigation and other claims arising out of our business based on degree of probability and range of possible loss. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our audited consolidated and combined financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these claims are often inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. Share Based Compensation We maintain a stock incentive plan that provides for awards of non qualified and incentive stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units and performance share units for the benefit of certain of our officers, directors and employees. At the time of the spinoff, Cardinal Health converted or adjusted outstanding stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (collectively, share based awards) with respect to Cardinal Health common shares held by Cardinal Health and CareFusion employees. The manner of conversion for each employee was determined based on the date of the original share based award and the employment status of the employee at the spinoff date of August 31, 2009. We record share based compensation expense for the share based awards held by our employees, regardless of whether such share based awards are based on common stock of CareFusion or common shares of Cardinal Health, with the offsetting impact recorded to Additional Paid In Capital in our consolidated and combined balance sheets. The fair value of the stock options granted during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, was estimated by Cardinal Health utilizing a Lattice valuation model. The fair value of stock options granted by CareFusion during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and subsequent to the spinoff was estimated by CareFusion utilizing a Black Scholes Merton valuation model. Our estimate of an options fair value depends on a complex process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These events, estimates of which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. We are required to compare our estimated share based forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See note 18 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information regarding share based compensation including the valuation process. New Accounting Pronouncements See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage these risks using hedging strategies that involve the use of derivative instruments. We do not enter into any derivative agreements for trading or speculative purposes. While we believe we have designed an effective risk management program, there are inherent limitations in our ability to forecast our exposures, and therefore we cannot guarantee that our programs will completely mitigate all risks associated with unfavorable movement in either foreign exchange rates or interest rates. Additionally, the timing of the recognition of gains and losses related to derivative instruments can be different from the recognition of the underlying economic exposure. This may impact our consolidated operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk Interest income and expense on variable rate instruments are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates across the world. Changes in interest rates primarily affect the interest earned on our cash and equivalents and to a significantly lesser extent the interest expense on our debt. As of June 30, 2010, the majority of our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. While changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on this debt, interest on any borrowings under our revolving credit facilities will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations as the rate on these facilities is variable. At June 30, 2010, we had no drawn amounts on our $240 million and $480 million revolving credit facilities. The tables below present information about our investment portfolio and debt obligations: June 30, 2010 Maturing in Fiscal Year FairMarketValue 3 (in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash $ 207 $ $ $ $ $ $ 207 $ 207 Cash Equivalents $ 812 $ $ $ $ $ $ 812 $ 812 Weighted Average Interest Rate1 0.10 % 0.10 % LIABILITIES Debt Obligations Fixed Rate Debt2 $ $ $ 250 $ $ 450 $ 700 $ 1,400 $ 1,534 Weighted Average Interest Rate 4.13 % 5.13 % 6.38 % 5.57 % Other Obligations $ 4 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ $ $ 6 $ 6 Weighted Average Interest Rate 2.61 % 2.80 % 4.74 % 2.82 % 54 Table of Contents June 30, 2009 Maturing in Fiscal Year FairMarketValue3 (in millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash $ 412 $ $ $ $ $ $ 412 $ 412 Cash Equivalents $ 214 $ $ $ $ $ $ 214 $ 214 Weighted Average Interest Rate1 0.4 % 0.4 % LIABILITIES Debt Obligations Allocated Corporate Debt $ 129 $ 183 $ 113 $ 106 $ $ 750 $ 1,281 $ 1,209 Weighted Average Interest Rate 1.79 % 6.53 % 5.31 % 5.47 % 5.44 % 5.22 % Other Obligations $ 1 $ 2 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ 3 $ 8 $ 8 Weighted Average Interest Rate 6.35 % 4.80 % 4.54 % 4.14 % 1.30 % 3.30 % 1 Represents weighted average interest rate for cash equivalents only; cash balances generally earn no interest. 2 Fixed rate notes are presented gross of a $16 million purchase discount at June 30, 2010. 3 The estimated fair value of our long term obligations and other short term borrowings was $1,540 million and $1,217 million at June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, respectively. The fair value of our senior notes at June 30, 2010 was based on quoted market prices. The fair value of the other obligations at June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, including debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health, was based on either the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt and the current interest rates offered for debt of the same remaining maturities or estimated discounted cash flows. Included in the table above are debt obligations and related interest expense, including the effects of interest rate swap agreements, that were allocated to CareFusion by Cardinal Health for the year ended June 30, 2009 prior to the spinoff. These allocated debt instruments were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff and were effectively replaced with the senior notes offered and sold on July 14, 2009. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. Foreign Currency Risk We are a global company with operations in multiple countries and are a net recipient of currencies other than the United States dollar (USD). Accordingly, a strengthening of the USD will negatively impact revenues and gross margins expressed in consolidated USD terms. Prior to the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009, we used derivative instruments indirectly through our participation in the centralized hedging program of Cardinal Health, which was designed to mitigate foreign currency risk. Cardinal Health did not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Currently, we have foreign exchange risk associated with currency exposure associated with existing assets and liabilities, committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk by using derivative contracts such as forwards, swaps and options with financial institutions to hedge our risks. In general, we will hedge material foreign exchange exposures up to twelve months in advance; however we may choose not to hedge some exposures for a variety of reasons including prohibitive economic costs. The realized and unrealized gains and losses of foreign currency forward contracts and the re measurement of foreign denominated receivables, payables and loans are recorded in the consolidated and combined statement of income. To the extent that cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, the unrealized gain or loss on the forward will be recorded to other comprehensive income (OCI). As the forecasted exposures affect earnings, the realized gain or loss on the forward contract will be moved from OCI to the consolidated and combined statements of income. 55 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding as of June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009: June 30, 2010 June 30, 2009 (in millions) NotionalAmount AverageContractRate NotionalAmount AverageContractRate Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Receive USD/pay foreign currency) Euro $ 13 1.2 $ 167 1.4 Australian Dollar 20 0.9 19 0.7 New Zealand Dollar 9 0.7 5 0.6 South African Rand 2 7.7 2 8.1 Norwegian Krone 2 6.3 Swedish Krona 2 7.6 Mexico Peso 2 13.0 8 13.4 Canadian Dollar 5 1.0 103 1.2 Japanese Yen 2 89.3 Indian Rupee 1 46.5 British Pound 33 1.6 Total $ 58 $ 337 Estimated Fair Value $ 1 $ (4 ) Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Pay USD/receive foreign currency) Mexican Peso $ 10 13.0 $ 27 13.4 Swiss Franc 5 1.1 Canadian Dollar 1 1.0 4 1.2 British Pound 20 1.5 68 1.4 Euro 8 1.2 25 1.6 Total $ 44 $ 124 Estimated Fair Value $ $ 1 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Pay foreign currency/receive euros) British Pound $ 9 0.8 $ 13 0.9 Swiss Franc 19 1.4 Total $ 28 $ 13 Estimated Fair Value $ $ Commodity Price Risk Management We purchase commodities such as resins, printed circuit boards, latex, various fuel products and polystyrene, among others for use in our manufacturing processes. We typically purchase these commodities at market prices, and as a result are affected by market price fluctuations. We have historically, performed a sensitivity analysis on our forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year, but have chosen to not hedge these exposures as they were deemed to be insignificant. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) presented below refer to and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to CareFusion Corporation, CareFusion, we, us, our and our company refer to CareFusion Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. References in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to Cardinal Health refers to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Separation from Cardinal Health, Inc. On September 29, 2008, Cardinal Health announced that it intended to separate its clinical and medical products businesses from the remainder of its businesses through a pro rata distribution of the common stock of an entity holding the assets and liabilities associated with the clinical and medical products businesses. CareFusion Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on January 14, 2009 for the purpose of holding such businesses. We completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the businesses comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us (the contribution), and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders (the distribution), based on a distribution ratio of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. Also in connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are reflected in the CareFusion financial information included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 K as discontinued operations. 32 Table of Contents In connection with the separation and other restructuring activities not related to the separation, we expected to incur one time expenditures (capital and expense) of between approximately $120 million to $130 million in fiscal year 2010. As of June 30, 2010, we have incurred approximately $120 million of expenditures. These expenditures primarily consist of employee related costs, costs to start up certain stand alone functions and information technology systems and other one time transaction related costs. Also included are approximately $22 million of capitalized fees associated with our bridge loan facility that were expensed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 related to the termination of that agreement on August 31, 2009. In fiscal year 2011, we expect to incur additional one time expenditures associated with the separation from Cardinal Health (capital and expense) of between approximately $80 million and $90 million, after which all substantive expenditures associated with standing up operations from the spinoff are expected to be complete. We have funded, and expect to continue funding these costs through cash from operations and cash on hand. The capital portion of these expenditures will be amortized over their useful lives and others have been expensed as incurred, depending on their nature. Additionally, we have incurred increased costs as an independent, publicly traded company, primarily as a result of higher charges than in the past from Cardinal Health for transition services and from establishing or expanding the corporate support for our businesses, including information technology, human resources, treasury, tax, risk management, accounting and financial reporting, investor relations, legal, procurement and other services. We believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses going forward. We do not anticipate that increased costs solely from becoming an independent, publicly traded company will have an adverse effect on our growth rate in the future beyond fiscal year 2010. We believe that the separation has allowed us, and will continue to allow us to: improve strategic planning, increase management focus and streamline decision making by providing us the flexibility to implement our unique strategic plans and to respond more effectively to our customer needs and the changing economic environment; allow us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, as well as resolving competition for capital among Cardinal Health and its investors; and facilitate incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhance employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives, while at the same time creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock. Overview We are a leading, global medical technology company with clinically proven and industry leading products and services designed to measurably improve the safety and quality of healthcare. We offer comprehensive product lines in the areas of IV infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments to customers in the United States and over 130 countries throughout the world. Our strategy is to enhance growth by focusing on healthcare safety and productivity, driving innovation and clinical differentiation, accelerating our global growth and pursing strategic opportunities. In furtherance of our strategy, we may seek to acquire entities that meet our objectives of driving innovation and global growth. Consistent with this strategy, in May 2010 we completed the acquisition of Medegen, a leading innovator in clinically differentiated needleless access valves and administration sets that deliver IV medication to patients. At the same time, our strategy also involves assessing our portfolio of businesses with a view of divesting non core businesses that do not align with our objectives, such as the divestitures of our Audiology business in October 2009 and our Research Services business in May 2010. See note 2 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further information. 33 Table of Contents Our primary customers in the United States include hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, clinics, long term care facilities and physician offices. For fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we generated revenue of $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, and income from continuing operations of $171 million in fiscal year 2010 and $290 million in fiscal year 2009. Approximately 31% of our fiscal year 2010 revenue was from customers outside of the United States. Our business consists of two reporting segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services. Critical Care Technologies includes our infusion, dispensing and respiratory care businesses that develop, manufacture and sell capital equipment and related dedicated and non dedicated disposables. Medical Technologies and Services includes our infection prevention and medical specialties products and services businesses that develop, manufacture and sell primarily single use, disposable products and reusable surgical instruments. Our capital equipment revenues are subject to a certain degree of seasonality that aligns to our customer capital equipment purchasing cycles. As a normal course of business, this seasonality would manifest itself with higher sales in our second and fourth quarters and lower sales in the first and third quarters of our fiscal year. Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations The Overall Global Economic Environment, Industry Growth and Trends Healthcare related industries are generally less susceptible than some other industries to fluctuations in the overall economic environment. However, some of our businesses rely on capital spending from our customers (primarily hospitals), which spending can be influenced by a variety of economic factors, including interest rates, access to financing and endowment fluctuations. Significant changes in these economic factors can affect the sales of our capital equipment products, such as infusion pumps, dispensing equipment and ventilators. Additionally, sales volumes for some of our businesses are dependent on hospital admissions. Changes in admissions due to difficult economic times can affect our results for surgical and single use products, such as infusion and respiratory disposable sets, surgical instruments and infection prevention products. In addition to the factors discussed above, we are also affected by uncertainties in the healthcare industry related to healthcare reform. Comprehensive healthcare reform was recently enacted in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Acts in March 2010. In addition, we anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. The uncertainties regarding the implementation and impact of the enacted healthcare reform measures, as well as other potential reform initiatives in the future, may have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we have observed certain hospitals delaying capital equipment purchase decisions, which had an adverse impact on our financial results for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. Moreover, while global healthcare expenditures are projected to grow over the coming years, reimbursement and funding for these expenditures is declining. These factors are creating both pressure and opportunity in the marketplace. We continue to believe that challenges exist in the capital equipment market from delays in hospital capital spending, as well as prioritization of capital spending. While we continue to see small signs of improvement, we anticipate it will take some time before significant market improvements are realized. Despite these continued challenges, our fiscal year 2010 sales increased 9% over fiscal year 2009. We believe that we are positioned strategically to benefit from increases in hospital capital equipment spending as the market recovers. 34 Table of Contents Primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy, we implemented a global workforce reduction in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which reduced our workforce by approximately 800 people over the course of fiscal years 2009 and 2010, and eliminated an additional 500 positions through normal attrition and by not filling open roles. We recorded a $12 million and $19 million pre tax restructuring charge for fiscal year 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with these actions. In fiscal year 2010 and beyond, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a benefit within our operating income due to reduced expenses as a result of these cost reduction initiatives. Additionally, on August 10, 2010, we announced a global restructuring program pursuant to which we expect to reduce our cost structure and streamline operations. As part of this restructuring, we anticipate reducing our global workforce by approximately 700 positions. We expect these restructuring activities to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2011. The pre tax expense and cash outlay for the program is estimated to be approximately $40 million to $50 million in the fiscal year 2011, primarily related to one time employee separation benefits and other costs. This program is expected to generate operating expense savings of approximately $85 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2011, increasing to annualized savings of $110 million to $120 million in fiscal year 2012 and beyond, through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions and other savings. Innovation and New Products Our business strategy relies significantly on innovation to develop and introduce new products and to differentiate our products from our competitors. Our investment expense in research and development during fiscal year 2010 was $159 million, or 4% of revenues. Excluding the revenues of our International Surgical Products business which requires no research and development investment, our fiscal year 2010 investment was 5% of revenues. Looking forward, we remain committed to producing a pipeline of innovative products to continue to support our growth strategies. We plan to increase our research and development expenditures with internal initiatives, as well as licensing or acquiring technology from third parties. Our internal and external investments will be focused on initiatives that we believe will offer the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability. With a significant investment in research and development, a strong focus on innovation and a well managed innovation process, we believe we can continue to innovate and grow. If, however, our future innovations are not successful in meeting customers needs or prove to be too costly versus their perceived benefit, our growth may slow. International and Foreign Exchange We sell our products in more than 130 countries and manufacture our products in nine countries in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Due to the global nature of our business, our revenue and expenses are influenced by foreign exchange movements. In fiscal year 2010, approximately 26% of our sales were in currencies other than the United States dollar. Increases or decreases in the value of the United States dollar compared to other currencies will affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into United States dollars. The percentage of fiscal year 2010 sales by major currencies was as follows: United States Dollar 74 % Euro 14 % British Pound 5 % All Other 7 % 100 % 35 Table of Contents Product Quality and Recalls Product quality, particularly in life saving and sustaining technologies, plays a critical role in our success. A quality or safety issue may result in public warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, recalls may negatively affect sales due to customer concerns about product quality. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our results were negatively affected by net charges for the cost of product recalls of $3 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. We are operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA, related to our infusion pump business in the United States. We entered into a consent decree with the FDA in February 2007 related to our Alaris SE pumps, and in February 2009, we and the FDA amended the consent decree (amended consent decree) to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303, Inc., our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. The amended consent decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories. While we remain subject to the amended consent decree, which includes the requirements of the consent decree, we have made substantial progress in our compliance efforts. In accordance with the consent decree, we reconditioned Alaris SE pumps that had been seized by the FDA, remediated Alaris SE pumps in use by customers, and had an independent expert inspect the Alaris SE pump facilities and provide a certification to the FDA as to compliance. As result of these efforts, in January 2010, we announced that the FDA had given us permission to resume the manufacturing and marketing of our Alaris SE pumps. In accordance with the amended consent decree, and in addition to the requirements of the original consent decree, we also implemented a corrective action plan to bring the Alaris System and all other infusion pumps in use in the United States market into compliance, had our infusion pump facilities inspected by an independent expert, and had our recall procedures and all ongoing recalls involving our infusion pumps inspected by an independent recall expert. In July 2010, the FDA notified us that we can proceed to the audit inspection phase of the amended consent decree, which includes the requirement to retain an independent expert to conduct periodic audits of our infusion pump facilities. The amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree, up to $15 million per year. We cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter, whether additional amounts will be incurred to resolve this matter, if any, or the matters ultimate impact on our business. We may be obligated to pay more or less than the amount that we reserved in connection with the amended consent decree because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. In response to infusion product recalls and the consent decree, we have made substantial investments in quality systems and quality personnel headcount over the past several years. While we believe that we have made significant improvements to our product quality and overall quality systems, further quality concerns, whether real or perceived, could adversely affect our results. Conversely, improving quality can be a competitive advantage and improve our results. Income Taxes Prior to the spinoff, our operations were included in Cardinal Healths United States federal and state tax returns or non United States jurisdictions tax returns. In connection with the spinoff, we and Cardinal Health entered into 36 Table of Contents a tax matters agreement that governs the parties respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes. The tax matters agreement generally provides that the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability related to our business is our responsibility. For the period July 1, 2009 through the spinoff date from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009, our operations were included in the consolidated income tax returns of Cardinal Health, however, income taxes were calculated and provided for CareFusion on a separate return basis for fiscal years 2010 and 2009. The amount of liabilities related to income taxes prior to the spinoff that were retained by Cardinal Health are reflected in Parent Company Investment in the consolidated statement of stockholders equity. Effective for the period beginning September 1, 2009, we will file stand alone income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction, various United States state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. Acquisitions Acquisitions have historically played a significant role in our growth. Significant acquisitions made in the last five years include VIASYS Healthcare Inc. (Viasys) in 2007, the assets of Enturia, Inc. (Enturia) in 2008 and Medegen in 2010. While we believe that the integration of Viasys and Enturia have generally been successful, our failure to integrate Medegen or other future acquisitions successfully might negatively affect our results. For further information regarding acquisitions, see note 3 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Acquired In Process Research and Development During 2010 we acquired and capitalized $45 million of in process research and development (IPR&D) through the acquisition of Medegen, which was valued based on a discounted cash flow method. Significant assumptions in valuing this IPR&D included timing of product deployment, revenues, margin, and associated discount rates. Effective July 1, 2009, IPR&D associated with business combinations is recorded in the balance sheet at fair value and tested for impairment annually until it is put into service. Prior to July 1, 2009, all acquired IPR&D was expensed immediately. See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. The $45 million of IPR&D associated with Medegen is related to certain products that are under development and are expected to be launched in the next three to four years. Completion of these products is subject to certain regulatory approvals and logistics surrounding manufacturing the end products cost effectively. The value of this IPR&D will be reviewed at least annually for impairment based on changing facts and circumstances; however, we do not anticipate that any portion will be impaired based on lack of ability to launch these products or other factors. Basis of Presentation The audited consolidated and combined financial statements reflect the consolidated operations of CareFusion Corporation and its subsidiaries as a separate, stand alone entity subsequent to August 31, 2009. Periods presented prior to our August 31, 2009 spinoff from Cardinal Health have been prepared on a stand alone basis and are derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cardinal Health. Certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States market that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff and were part of the clinical and medical products business of Cardinal Health, were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff, and are presented in these financial statements as discontinued operations. Our audited consolidated and combined financial statements do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we operated as an independent, publicly traded company during the periods prior to the spinoff from Cardinal Health. See note 15 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further description of the transactions between Cardinal Health and us. 37 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009 Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2010 2009 Change Revenue $ 3,929 $ 3,595 $ 334 Cost of Products Sold 2,063 1,864 199 Gross Margin 1,866 1,731 135 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 1,228 1,055 173 Research and Development Expenses 159 160 (1 ) Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges 19 72 (53 ) Gain on the Sale of Assets (12 ) (12 ) Operating Income 472 444 28 Interest Expense and Other, Net 115 101 14 Income Before Income Taxes 357 343 14 Provision for Income Taxes 186 53 133 Income from Continuing Operations 171 290 (119 ) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 23 278 (255 ) Net Income $ 194 $ 568 $ (374 ) Revenue Revenue in our CCT segment increased by $215 million, or 9%, to $2,644 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue was attributable to increased sales in our respiratory products, primarily ventilators and disposables, as a result of emergency preparedness during fiscal year 2010, including the potential effects of influenza viruses. In addition, revenues increased as a result of the impact of commercial agreements executed in conjunction with our separation from Cardinal Health. Our infusion product revenues increased largely as a result of the net impact of the release of the shipping hold on the Alaris System that began in February 2009 and ended in July 2009 and the fulfillment of previously delayed customer orders that resulted from the shipping hold. However, infusion revenues were negatively impacted by delays in hospital capital spending, primarily for the first six months of fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Dispensing equipment revenues declined due to the impact of delays in hospital capital spending through the first three quarters of fiscal year 2010, as well as the way in which hospitals prioritize and allocate their spending. Revenue in our MT&S segment increased by $119 million, or 10%, to $1,285 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue increase is attributable to growth in our international surgical products business, including the impact of foreign exchange; our interventional specialties products business; and growth in our infection prevention products business. Growth in the international surgical products business is primarily the result of emergency preparedness, including the potential effects of influenza viruses and continued growth in the sale of custom sterile kits. Interventional specialties growth primarily resulted from increased sales of chronic drainage products. Gross Margin and Cost of Products Sold Gross margin increased $135 million, or 8%, to $1,866 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, gross margin was 48% of revenue for fiscal year 2010 and 2009. 38 Table of Contents The increase in gross margin is primarily attributable to sales growth, combined with the favorable impacts in manufacturing costs. Manufacturing savings resulting from: (a) improved utilization of raw materials; (b) the impact of relocating certain of our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers to lower cost jurisdictions; (c) favorable overhead absorption as a result of increased volume; and (d) controlled overhead spending. Also affecting the increase were infusion product recall charges for $18 million that impacted the quarter ended March 31, 2009 associated with the Alaris System shipping hold. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained flat year over year. This was the result of the manufacturing efficiencies noted above, offset by a product mix that includes a higher proportion of respiratory sales, which generally have lower margins than our other capital equipment businesses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $173 million, or 16%, to $1,228 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in SG&A is attributable to incremental operating costs related to standing up certain corporate functions; one time costs associated with our spinoff from Cardinal Health of $59 million; and increases in discretionary variable compensation and share based compensation of $84 million. Partially offsetting these increases are the favorable impacts of our March 2009 global workforce reduction program of $56 million. SG&A expenses for fiscal year 2009 include allocated costs to us by Cardinal Health of $406 million. Included within the $406 million is $21 million of expenses associated with discontinued operations. Allocated SG&A expenses include expenses for shared functions, including management, finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal, legislative affairs and management incentive plan expenses. SG&A expenses historically allocated to us are not likely to be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly traded company for the periods presented or for future periods following our separation from Cardinal Health. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges Restructuring and acquisition integration charges decreased $53 million, or 74%, to $19 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. During fiscal year 2009, we launched a series of restructuring programs with the goal to provide improved management focus through the re alignment of the management structure and lowering its cost structure through a reduction in global workforce. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded $9 million of expense associated with these restructuring programs. In total, we recorded $66 million of expense for these restructuring programs, and as of March 31, 2010, all major activities of these programs have been completed. During fiscal year 2009, restructuring charges were primarily comprised of employee related and facility exit restructuring charges of $60 million, and acquisition integration expenses of $12 million were primarily related to our 2007 acquisition of Viasys. Gain on the Sale of Assets In May 2010, we completed the sale of our Research Services business, which was historically part of our MT&S segment, for $81 million in cash. Including estimated working capital adjustments as part of the definitive agreement, the pre tax gain related to the disposition was approximately $12 million, or $1 million loss after tax. Income tax expense associated with the transaction was impacted by approximately $24 million of goodwill assigned to the disposition that was not deductible for tax purposes. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions which includes potential adjustments for the final working capital. See note 2 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Operating Income Operating income for fiscal year 2010 increased $28 million, or 6%, to $472 million. The increase in operating income was due to a reduction of restructuring and acquisition integration charges, the pre tax gain on the sale of 39 Table of Contents our Research Services business, and higher sales and associated margin. Partially offsetting these increases are higher SG&A expenses, primarily associated with one time and incremental expenses related to standing up as a public company. We have, and expect to continue to, experience benefits from our restructuring programs initiated in March 2009. Segment profit in our CCT reportable segment increased by $41 million, or 12%, to $395 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit is attributable to higher sales in our infusion and respiratory businesses, decreases in restructuring and integration charges, and a decrease in infusion product recall charges relative to the $18 million product recall charge recorded for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Segment profit in our MT&S reportable segment decreased by $25 million, or 28%, to $65 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in segment profit is primarily attributable to the timing and increase of SG&A expenses. The decreases were partially offset by incremental gross margin and reductions in restructuring and acquisition integration expenses. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other, net for fiscal year 2010 increased $14 million, or 14%, to $115 million. The increase is attributable to a one time write off of debt issuance and related costs of $22 million associated with the bridge loan facility, which was terminated on August 31, 2009, and to a lesser extent, the difference in interest expense for our outstanding senior notes compared to interest expense associated with the allocated debt from Cardinal Health in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by decreases in foreign currency exchange losses of $22 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. In general, gains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rates are related to the remeasurement of receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds the receivable or payable. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense for fiscal year 2010 increased $133 million to $186 million compared to the prior fiscal year. The effective tax rate for fiscal year 2010 was 52.1% compared to 15.5% for fiscal year 2009. The change in expense and effective tax rates in aggregate were primarily the result of charges recorded during fiscal year 2010 of approximately $71 million and benefits recorded during fiscal year 2009 of approximately $45 million. During fiscal year 2010, we completed a detailed analysis of our tax reserves prompted by new information related to our potential tax positions, tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies. For this analysis, we retained third party advisors to assist in assessing whether, based on the new information, our tax risks had changed, and whether additional reserves in excess of those already recorded were necessary. This change in estimate of approximately $58 million was recorded as a charge to net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Also during fiscal year 2010, the disposition of our Research Services business resulted in additional tax expense of approximately $13 million, primarily due to with non deductible goodwill associated with the disposition. During fiscal year 2009, a claim was filed by Cardinal Health with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to amend the filing position taken on its United States federal income tax return for fiscal years 2004 through 2006 related to a secured loan transaction involving certain of our sales type lease receivables. Since our income taxes are presented on a separate return basis, we recognized a $24 million net tax benefit in the quarter ended March 31, 2009, related to this item. Also during fiscal year 2009, a benefit of approximately $21 million was recorded due to the impact of changes in state tax laws and a change in the estimated values of our deferred income tax liabilities due to the separation from Cardinal Health. 40 Table of Contents Generally, fluctuations in our effective tax rate are primarily due to changes within international and state effective tax rates resulting from our business mix and changes in the tax impact of restructuring and acquisition integration charges and other discrete items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item. The provision for income tax amounts historically calculated is not likely to be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly traded company for the periods presented or for future periods following the separation. For additional detail regarding the provision for income taxes, see note 12 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for fiscal year 2010 decreased 92% to $23 million compared to the prior fiscal year. Included in discontinued operations for fiscal year 2010 and 2009 are (a) certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the United States markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff and were part of the clinical and medical products business of Cardinal Health, and were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff; and (b) the Audiology business, which produces and markets hearing diagnostic equipment, which was sold on October 1, 2009. The businesses retained by Cardinal Health have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods reported through the date of our spinoff of August 31, 2009. The net income earned by the businesses retained by Cardinal Health upon the spinoff is included within our income from discontinued operations until the date of our spinoff of August 31, 2009, or two months in fiscal year 2010; whereas the net income earned by these businesses for the entire fiscal year 2009 is included within our income from discontinued operations for that same period. The significant decrease in our income from discontinued operations is primarily due to the difference in the number of periods the businesses retained by Cardinal Health were included within our results in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Additionally, during fiscal year 2010, we recorded losses associated with the sale of the Audiology business. See note 2 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2008 Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2009 2008 Change Revenue $ 3,595 $ 3,663 $ (68 ) Cost of Products Sold 1,864 1,896 (32 ) Gross Margin 1,731 1,767 (36 ) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 1,055 1,027 28 Research and Development Expenses 160 157 3 Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges 72 35 37 Acquired In Process Research and Development 18 (18 ) Operating Income 444 530 (86 ) Interest Expense and Other, Net 101 87 14 Income Before Income Tax 343 443 (100 ) Provision for Income Tax 53 110 (57 ) Income from Continuing Operations 290 333 (43 ) Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax 278 330 (52 ) Net Income $ 568 $ 663 $ (95 ) 41 Table of Contents Revenue Total revenue decreased by $68 million, or 2%, to $3,595 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue decline resulted from lower sales volume in our capital equipment businesses ($149 million), as a result of the deferral of capital spending by hospitals and a ship hold on our Alaris infusion devices. Hospitals delayed their capital spending during fiscal year 2009 due to the decline in the overall global economic environment, which we believe created uncertainty in regards to access to capital markets and reduced the size of hospital endowments that are utilized to provide funding for capital equipment products. For several months of fiscal year 2009, we also placed a hold on shipping the Alaris PCA module and related Alaris PC Unit while we sought FDA clearance for a software correction under the corrective action plan, which we received in July 2009. As a result of these items, the volume of our capital equipment sales decreased, and overall capital goods products revenues decreased. Additionally, revenue declined due to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. Sales transactions denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar comprised approximately 26% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2009, of which the majority is denominated in euros and British pounds. On average during fiscal year 2009, the United States dollar strengthened relative to the euro and British pound by approximately 7% and 26%, respectively. The revenue declines were partially offset by revenue increases associated with acquisitions ($170 million), primarily due to our acquisition of Enturia in fiscal year 2008; international growth, exclusive of effects of foreign exchange; and new products. Our CCT segment revenue decreased $174 million, or 7%, to $2,429 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due primarily to lower sales volume of capital equipment due to delays in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold discussed above and the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by increases in revenues associated with new products, largely due to new respiratory ventilator equipment products. Our MT&S segment revenue increased $106 million, or 10%, to $1,166 million, for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue increase was primarily due to acquisitions (approximately $170 million); and international revenue growth, excluding effects of foreign exchange rates. These increases were partially offset by the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, and a decline in diagnostic capital equipment and instrument revenues. Gross Margin and Cost of Products Sold Gross margin decreased $36 million, or 2%, to $1,731 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 48% in both fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2009, gross margin was affected by a variety of offsetting factors, including: international pricing pressure; the effects of foreign exchange, in which the benefits of changes in foreign exchange rates associated with our procurement transactions were more than outweighed by unfavorable impacts associated with sales transactions; the adverse effects of the under utilization of our capital equipment manufacturing facilities; and increased sales volumes in certain of our infection prevention and skin preparation businesses and a shift in sales mix favoring disposable products within our CCT segment due to the decline in sales volume of capital equipment. Our infection prevention, skin preparation, and disposable products each recognize higher margins than our other product offerings. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1,055 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. SG&A expenses increased primarily due to acquisitions ($50 million), additional investments in product 42 Table of Contents quality processes ($11 million), and additional provisions for bad debts ($4 million). These increases were partially offset by a decrease due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($25 million) and a decrease in management incentive compensation expense ($19 million). SG&A expenses allocated by Cardinal Health to us during the fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were $406 million and $407 million, respectively. Included within the $406 million and $407 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 are $21 million and $23 million, respectively, associated with discontinued operations. Allocated SG&A expenses include expenses for shared functions, including management, finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal, legislative affairs and management incentive plan expenses. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges Restructuring and acquisition integration charges increased $37 million, or 106%, to $72 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal year 2009 were primarily comprised of integration expenses associated with Viasys ($9 million); employee related restructuring costs ($40 million); and facility exit costs ($20 million). As previously mentioned, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we announced a cost reduction initiative primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy. We recorded a $19 million pre tax restructuring charge associated with this cost reduction initiative, included within employee related restructuring costs identified above. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal year 2008 were primarily comprised of integration costs associated with our acquisition of Viasys and restructuring costs related to the closure of a replenishment center, headcount reductions within existing operations and other facility exit costs. Acquired In process Research and Development In connection with our acquisition of certain businesses in fiscal year 2008, we purchased IPR&D. At the time of acquisition, these projects had not yet achieved technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, the estimated fair value of the IPR&D was expensed at the acquisition date, under the accounting rules of fiscal year 2009 and prior years. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded charges to write off our preliminary estimates of fair values of the IPR&D associated with the Enturia acquisition ($18 million), other minor acquisitions ($25 million), and adjusted downward the IPR&D charges initially recorded in fiscal year 2007 associated with the Viasys acquisition based on the final valuation of its related IPR&D in fiscal year 2008 ($25 million). Operating Income Operating income decreased $86 million, or 16%, to $444 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. Our CCT segment profit decreased $158 million, or 31%, to $354 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in segment profit was primarily a result of a lower sales volume of capital equipment due to the delay in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold ($85 million), the unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($22 million) and the impact of the restructuring charges discussed previously. Our MT&S segment profit increased $72 million to $90 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit was primarily due to the profitability of prior year acquisitions ($51 million) and the impact of the change in IPR&D charges in fiscal year 2009 ($18 million). These increases were partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($11 million) and the impact of the restructuring charges discussed previously. 43 Table of Contents Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other, net increased $14 million, or 16%, to $101 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in interest expense and other, net was primarily the result of increases in losses due to changes in foreign exchange rates ($32 million), partially offset by a reduction in interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health ($8 million). Interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health totaled $80 million and $88 million in fiscal year 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in allocated interest expense was primarily due to lower levels of debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health. See note 11 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for further information. Provision for Income Taxes For fiscal year 2009, our provision for income taxes decreased $57 million to $53 million, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in income tax expense was due to a reduction in income before income taxes, a decrease related to a claim filed with the IRS to amend our position relative to sales type lease transactions previously discussed ($24 million), and a decrease for the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the impact of internal reorganizations ($21 million). These decreases in tax are partially offset by an unfavorable tax adjustment for accrued interest related to proposed tax assessments and the impact of nondeductible IPR&D charges in fiscal year 2008. As a result of this activity, our effective tax rate decreased to 15.5% in fiscal year 2009 from 24.8% in fiscal year 2008. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense decreased $52 million, or 16%, to $278 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was attributable to a gross margin decline ($28 million) due to a shift in product mix towards lower margin products and increases in cost of petroleum based raw materials; the net effect of increased SG&A expenses ($23 million); a gain on the sale of a business unit in fiscal year 2008 ($11 million); and an increase in tax expense ($24 million). These decreases were partially offset by an increase in royalty income ($44 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Following the spinoff, our capital structure, long term capital commitments and sources of liquidity changed significantly from when our business operations were a component of Cardinal Health. We no longer receive cash from Cardinal Health to fund our operating or investing needs. Instead, our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations, the overall capacity and terms of our financing arrangements, and our access to the capital markets. Historically, we have generated, and expect to continue to generate, positive cash flow from operations. Cash flow from operations primarily represents inflows from net income (adjusted for depreciation and other non cash items) and outflows from investment in sales type leases entered into, as we sell and install dispensing equipment, and other increases in working capital needed to grow the business. Cash flows from investing activities represent our investment in intellectual property and capital equipment required to grow our business, as well as acquisitions. Cash flows from financing activities are primarily related to the issuance of debt associated with our spinoff from Cardinal Health. Prior to our spinoff, cash flows from financing activities were primarily related to changes in Cardinal Healths investment in us. In the past, Cardinal Health would fund our operating and investing activities as needed and transfer our excess cash at its discretion. Transfers of cash both to and from Cardinal Healths cash management system are reflected as a component of Parent Company Investment within Parent Company Equity in the consolidated and combined balance sheets. 44 Table of Contents Our cash balance at June 30, 2010 was $1,019 million. Of this balance, $896 million is held outside of the United States and is denominated in United States dollars as well as other currencies. We believe that our current domestic cash flow from operations and domestic cash balances are sufficient to meet domestic operating needs. However, should our domestic cash needs exceed our current or future domestic cash flows, we may be required to repatriate foreign cash or utilize our revolving credit facilities, both of which would result in increased expense. We believe that our future cash from operations together with our access to funds available under our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities and the capital markets will provide adequate resources to fund both short term and long term operating requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions and new business development activities. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Cash Flow Provided by/(Used in) Operating Activities $ 706 $ 515 $ 561 Investing Activities $ (256 ) $ (133 ) $ (788 ) Financing Activities $ 21 $ (186 ) $ 133 Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased $191 million to $706 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase was due to increased cash flows associated with other accrued liabilities and operating items ($274 million), primarily related to an increase in uncertain tax position reserves, the timing of recognition of certain deferred tax items through our current tax provision and taxes payable, and accruals for employee related liabilities; increases in cash flows associated with accounts payable ($81 million), primarily due to longer payment cycles at the end of fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 to enhance our cash positions; and the impacts of converting inventory balances ($30 million), primarily related to the release of the shipping hold on the Alaris System. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in cash flows associated with accounts receivable ($60 million). The decrease in cash flow associated with accounts receivable is primarily a result of longer collection periods with Cardinal Health. Prior to the spinoff, accounts receivables from Cardinal Health were considered to be settled for cash immediately, as they were intercompany balances. Based on our focused efforts to improve collections surrounding accounts receivable over the course of fiscal year 2010, we have experienced increased collection rates and lower days outstanding associated with accounts receivable activity. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations increased $123 million to $256 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to the purchase of Medegen ($224 million) and increases in capital expenditures ($12 million). The increase was partially offset by proceeds from the divestitures of our Research Services business ($81 million) and Audiology business ($27 million). Within financing activities, we incurred indebtedness with a face value of $1.4 billion in connection with the spinoff from Cardinal Health. On August 31, 2009, we used the proceeds of this debt of $1.374 billion to pay a dividend to Cardinal Health, and as a result, those proceeds were not available for our business needs. Financing activities prior to fiscal year 2010 were primarily related to cash receipts and disbursements between us and Cardinal Health to fund business operations as a component of Cardinal Health. Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $46 million to $515 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income, after 45 Table of Contents adjustments for non cash items ($163 million) and a reduction in cash flows related to other accrued liabilities and operating items ($86 million); partially offset by increased cash flows from collections of accounts receivable ($96 million) and sales type capital leases ($88 million). Net cash used in investing activities decreased $655 million to $133 million compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily related to the cash purchase price of Enturia in fiscal year 2008 ($476 million) and reductions in capital expenditures ($71 million). The net cash used in financing for both years was primarily the result of net cash transfers to and from Cardinal Health. Capital Resources Senior Unsecured Notes. On July 14, 2009, we offered and sold $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and received net proceeds of $1.374 billion. As part of the spinoff, the net proceeds were subsequently distributed as a dividend payment to Cardinal Health. The indenture for the senior notes limits our ability to incur certain secured debt and enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. In accordance with the indenture, we may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a price that would equal or exceed the outstanding principal balance, as defined. In addition, if we undergo a change of control and experience a below investment grade rating event, we may be required to repurchase all of the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal balance plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In connection with the issuance of the senior notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the notes pursuant to which we agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC to conduct an exchange offer for the notes. In accordance with the registration rights agreement, we filed a Form S 4 with the SEC and conducted an exchange offer for the notes, which we completed on February 4, 2010. The purpose of the exchange offer was to allow the holders of the senior notes, which were issued in a private placement transaction and were subject to transfer restrictions, to exchange their notes for new notes that did not have these restrictions and are registered under the Securities Act. All of the outstanding senior notes were exchanged in the exchange offer. Following the exchange offer, we continue to have $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding. Revolving Credit Facilities. On July 1, 2009, we entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit facilities with an aggregate available principal amount of $720 million, allocated as follows: $240 million 364 day revolving credit facility (maturing August 30, 2010); and $480 million three year revolving credit facility (maturing August 31, 2012) Borrowings under the 364 day revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or alternate base rate (ABR), in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.2% to 3.5% based upon CareFusions debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.2% to 2.5% based upon CareFusions debt ratings. At June 30, 2010, we had no amounts outstanding under our 364 day revolving credit facility. Borrowings under the three year revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the LIBOR or the alternate base rate ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.1% to 3.375% depending on CareFusions debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.1% to 2.375% depending on CareFusions debt ratings. The commitments under the three year revolving credit facility are subject to increase, upon our request and consent by the lenders, by up to an aggregate of $30 million. Subject to customary covenants, the three year revolving credit facility allows for the stated borrowing amount, including $25 million of standby letters of credit. At June 30, 2010, we had no amounts outstanding under our three year revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facilities contain several customary covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness, investments, dispositions, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, change 46 Table of Contents in control and sale and lease back transactions. The revolving credit facilities also require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We were in compliance with all of our revolving credit agreement covenants at June 30, 2010. All obligations under the revolving credit facilities are guaranteed by each of our existing and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries. We may enter into new revolving facilities in the future. However, the expiration of the 364 day facility on August 30, 2010 is not expected to have a negative impact on our ability to access adequate financing in the future. Bridge Loan Facility. On July 1, 2009, we entered into a senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the bridge loan facility) to provide financing for an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, with a term of 364 days from the date of any funding, for payment of the dividend to Cardinal Health as part of our spinoff. As the senior unsecured note offering was successfully completed prior to the separation, those proceeds were used to finance the payment of the dividend to Cardinal Health in lieu of drawing the bridge loan facility. As a result, the bridge loan facility was terminated on August 31, 2009. In connection with this termination, we expensed approximately $22 million of capitalized fees to interest expense in the quarter ended September 30, 2009. Dividends We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance research and development, acquisitions and the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any dividends in the future by us will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Moreover, should we pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2010, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Long Term Debt1 $ 3 $ 250 $ 450 $ 700 $ 1,403 Capital Lease Obligations2 1 2 3 Other Long Term Liabilities3 61 32 10 7 110 Interest on Long Term Debt4 78 152 126 204 560 Operating Leases5 44 71 49 33 197 Purchase Obligations6 195 12 3 4 214 Total Financial Obligations $ 382 $ 519 $ 638 $ 948 $ 2,487 1 Represents maturities of our long term debt obligations, excluding capital lease obligations described below, as described in note 11 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Amounts are presented gross of debt purchase discounts of $16 million at June 30, 2010. 2 Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long term debt in the consolidated and combined balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. 3 Represents cash outflows by period for certain of our long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits of $269 million and deferred taxes of $671 million, tax associated accruals of $94 million, deferred compensation obligations of $9 million and other long term liabilities of $7 million, have been excluded from the table above because of the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflow. See note 12 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information. 47 Table of Contents 4 Interest obligation is calculated based on each outstanding debt stated or coupon rate, or existing variable rate as of June 30, 2010, as applicable. 5 Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in note 13 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. 6 Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2010, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our audited consolidated and combined financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The preparation of these audited consolidated and combined financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant effect on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience, trends, and managements judgment. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and believe our estimates to be reasonable. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing our audited consolidated and combined financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see note 1 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue through the sale and lease of equipment, software, services, medical products, supplies, and the income associated with the financing of our equipment leases. We recognize revenue when: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; product delivery has occurred or the services have been rendered; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectability is reasonably assured. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends on a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized may involve subjective or complex judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. The significant judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and could result in material differences under other assumptions and conditions are those described below. 48 Table of Contents Evaluation of the Significance of Embedded Software We sell and lease products with embedded software. We regularly review these products to determine whether embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole. If the embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole, the product is classified as a software product. In classifying our products, we consider the following characteristics to be indicators that embedded software is more than incidental to the product as whole: software is a significant focus of the marketing effort or the software application is sold separately; significant internally developed software costs have been incurred; and if we provide telephone support, bug fixes, and or unspecified upgrades specific to the embedded software. The evaluation process is often complex and subject to significant judgment as the products exhibit varying degrees of the indicators identified above, such as: certain products are marketed as systems or solutions wherein it is implied, but not explicitly stated within marketing and sales collateral, that embedded software provides the basis for significant functionalities identified within the marketing efforts; internal software development costs are incurred during the product development process; separately priced extended warranty services provide post installation support relative to repair parts and services and also include telephone support and bug fixes for the software embedded within the products; and we are required by law to provide medical safety related bug fixes for products with embedded software elements. We classify our infusion products, when sold with safety software, patient identification products, and certain diagnostic equipment as software. We have determined the embedded software within our other products, primarily our dispensing and respiratory products, is incidental to the products as a whole. Those products are therefore not classified as software. Revenue Recognition for Leases Our accounting for leases involves specific determinations under applicable lease accounting standards, which often involve complex and prescriptive provisions. If a lease qualifies as a sales type capital lease, equipment revenue is recognized upon delivery or installation of the equipment as opposed to ratably over the lease term. Therefore, our lease classification procedures significantly affect the timing of revenue recognition. The critical element considered by us in determining the classification of our lease transactions is the fair value of the leased equipment, including its estimated fair value at the inception and conclusion of the lease, and the estimated useful life of our equipment. For the purposes of determining the fair value of leased equipment at the inception of the lease, we apply the percentage discount from rental list prices provided within the lease transaction against the purchase list price. This methodology assumes that purchase customers are provided similar discounts as lease customers. Periodically, we review discount levels provided to purchase customers and lease customers to validate this assumption. We estimate the useful life of our equipment based upon actual historical data which identifies the length of time our equipment has been in place and in service at customer facilities. Multiple Element Arrangements The majority of our transactions qualify as multiple element arrangements. We use the relative fair value method to allocate contract proceeds to each unit of accounting, which are then individually recognized to revenue. To the extent that fair value evidence does not exist for delivered elements of the transaction, we apply the residual method. 49 Table of Contents Determination as to whether fair value exists and the valuation of our fair value estimates are critical to both the relative fair value method and residual method. The determination of fair value estimates associated with our products and services is generally based on historical evidence of sales of the same product in stand alone transactions and the contract renewal prices for post contract support and separately priced extended warranty services. For software and software related products, evidence used in the determination of fair value estimates are based solely on vendor specific objective evidence. Third party fair value evidence may be used for non software products. Different conclusions as to the existence and valuation of fair value estimates may significantly affect the timing and valuation of revenue recognition, the classification of leasing transactions, and the classification of revenue as product, service, rental or other income. It is impossible to determine the effects of potential different conclusions as they relate to the existence or valuation of fair value estimates. We will adopt Accounting Standards Updates (ASU) 2009 13 Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU 2009 14 Certain Revenue Arrangements That Includes Software Elements on July 1, 2010. The adoption of these standards will cause the significant majority of our products, including infusion, patient identification, and diagnostic equipment to be excluded from the scope of software revenue recognition provisions. Additionally, we will utilize the relative selling price method in allocating contractual proceeds to units of accounting in multiple element arrangements. Neither the reclassification of our infusion, patient identification and diagnostic equipment, nor the use of the relative selling price method is anticipated to result in a significant change in the identification of units of accounting, or the timing or amount of our revenues. See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets, which requires management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. Current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is affected by purchase price allocations and by the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. We believe the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the status of the acquired companys research and development projects is assessed to determine the existence of IPR&D. In connection with certain acquisitions, we are required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D, which requires selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assesses the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs are not assigned to IPR&D unless future development is probable. Beginning with acquisitions completed on or after July 1, 2009, IPR&D is recorded as an unamortized intangible asset until the underlying products are either completed and put into service, which would require commencing amortization over the estimated product life, or determining the products will not complete development, which would require impairing the portion of IPR&D associated with that product. Until either determination is made, IPR&D is subject to periodic impairment review, with impairments, if any, expensed to our consolidated and combined statement of income. During fiscal year 2010, we completed the acquisition of Medegen, which resulted in approximately $45 million of IPR&D associated with new products under development being recorded as an intangible asset. The timing and recognition of both the in service date for these products as well as the potential of impairment involves significant judgment. 50 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangibles Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. Intangibles with definite lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset might not be recoverable. In conducting the annual impairment test of our goodwill, the fair value of our reporting units is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. We perform our impairment testing at the operating segment level. There are no fluid active or inactive markets for our operating segments to derive approximate fair values, and accordingly, the valuation process is similar to the valuation of a closely held company and considers valuation methods that are income based and market based. Our income based approach is a discounted cash flow method which utilizes an estimated discount rate to the projected after tax cash flows for the operating segment. Our market based approach utilizes an estimated market based multiple to the operating segments estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The results of the income based and market based approaches are equally weighted to arrive at the total estimated fair value for each operating segment. Based on our annual impairment test as of April 1, 2010, we did not record any goodwill impairments. The application of valuation methods requires significant judgment regarding appropriate inputs and assumptions and results in our best estimate of the fair value of an operating segment. As with any estimate, inputs and assumptions can be subject to varying degrees of uncertainty. Informed market participants can differ in their perception of value for a reporting unit. It is possible that one of our operating segments could experience a goodwill impairment in the future. Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges We separately identify restructuring and acquisition integration charges in SG&A expenses. A restructuring activity is a program whereby we fundamentally change our operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Acquisition integration charges are activities and costs to integrate acquired companies into the operations of our existing activities, including such functions as selling, manufacturing, information systems, and corporate related functions. The majority of the charges related to restructuring and acquisition integration can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments, and other integration costs. Employee related costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of our assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. See note 5 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information. Provision for Income Taxes Prior to August 31, 2009, our income taxes as presented are calculated on a separate tax return basis, although our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Healths United States federal and state tax returns or non Unites States jurisdictions tax returns. Cardinal Healths global tax model was developed based on its entire portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, our tax results for periods prior to August 31, 2009 are not necessarily reflective of the results that we would have generated on a stand alone basis. 51 Table of Contents With the exception of certain dedicated foreign entities for periods prior to August 31, 2009, we did not maintain taxes payable to/from Cardinal Health, and we instead were deemed to settle the annual current tax balances immediately with the legal tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in Parent Company Investment in the consolidated and combined balance sheets. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and measurement of uncertain tax positions reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. We had deferred income tax assets before valuation allowances of $350 million and $277 million as of June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, respectively. We also had deferred income tax liabilities of $859 million and $811 million as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At June 30, 2010, we had gross federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards of $3 million, $141 million and $31 million, respectively, the tax effect of which is an aggregate deferred tax asset of $16 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least three years or have an indefinite carryforward period. The valuation allowance of $6 million at June 30, 2010 applies to certain federal, international, and state and local carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance would be applied against income tax expense. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and measurement of uncertain tax positions are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate, and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agents Report for the tax years 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest, which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding its application of the United States Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them. We are still in the audit stage with respect to the fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2006 and 2007 and have received several proposed notices of adjustment to date. The IRS has not yet commenced any IRS audit for our fiscal tax years ending June 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010. We believe that we have provided adequate contingent tax reserves for these matters. The tax matters agreement generally provides that the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability related to our business is our responsibility. During fiscal year 2010, we completed a detailed analysis of our tax reserves prompted by new information related to our potential tax positions, tax liabilities, and tax planning strategies. For this analysis, we retained third party advisors to assist in assessing whether, based on the new information, our tax risks had changed, and whether additional reserves in excess of those already recorded were necessary. This change in estimate of approximately $58 million was recorded as a charge to net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. See note 12 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements. The proper transfer price to be charged among subsidiaries and the value of intellectual property transferred among subsidiaries are subjective determinations that depend on the specific facts and circumstances at issue. Management estimated a contingent tax reserve for these issues by first concluding that our positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The reserve was then determined by evaluating and weighing the technical merits of alternative valuation methodologies against each other and concluding on the positions that provide the largest amount of 52 Table of Contents tax benefit that is more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate resolution. To the extent there are any administrative or case law developments that provide additional evidence in favor or against the valuation methodologies utilized, the contingent tax reserve will be adjusted in the period that such developments occur. Since it is not currently possible to predict whether and when any of these events will occur, we are unable to quantify potential changes. Although we believe that we have provided an appropriate contingent tax reserve for these matters, we may not be fully reserved for this matter and it is possible that we may be obligated to pay an amount in excess of the reserve, including the full amount that the IRS is seeking. Any such obligation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We accrue for contingencies related to litigation and other claims arising out of our business based on degree of probability and range of possible loss. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our audited consolidated and combined financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these claims are often inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. Share Based Compensation We maintain a stock incentive plan that provides for awards of non qualified and incentive stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units and performance share units for the benefit of certain of our officers, directors and employees. At the time of the spinoff, Cardinal Health converted or adjusted outstanding stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (collectively, share based awards) with respect to Cardinal Health common shares held by Cardinal Health and CareFusion employees. The manner of conversion for each employee was determined based on the date of the original share based award and the employment status of the employee at the spinoff date of August 31, 2009. We record share based compensation expense for the share based awards held by our employees, regardless of whether such share based awards are based on common stock of CareFusion or common shares of Cardinal Health, with the offsetting impact recorded to Additional Paid In Capital in our consolidated and combined balance sheets. The fair value of the stock options granted during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, was estimated by Cardinal Health utilizing a Lattice valuation model. The fair value of stock options granted by CareFusion during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and subsequent to the spinoff was estimated by CareFusion utilizing a Black Scholes Merton valuation model. Our estimate of an options fair value depends on a complex process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These events, estimates of which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. We are required to compare our estimated share based forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See note 18 to our audited consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information regarding share based compensation including the valuation process. New Accounting Pronouncements See note 1 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage these risks using hedging strategies that involve the use of derivative instruments. We do not enter into any derivative agreements for trading or speculative purposes. While we believe we have designed an effective risk management program, there are inherent limitations in our ability to forecast our exposures, and therefore we cannot guarantee that our programs will completely mitigate all risks associated with unfavorable movement in either foreign exchange rates or interest rates. Additionally, the timing of the recognition of gains and losses related to derivative instruments can be different from the recognition of the underlying economic exposure. This may impact our consolidated operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk Interest income and expense on variable rate instruments are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates across the world. Changes in interest rates primarily affect the interest earned on our cash and equivalents and to a significantly lesser extent the interest expense on our debt. As of June 30, 2010, the majority of our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. While changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on this debt, interest on any borrowings under our revolving credit facilities will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations as the rate on these facilities is variable. At June 30, 2010, we had no drawn amounts on our $240 million and $480 million revolving credit facilities. The tables below present information about our investment portfolio and debt obligations: June 30, 2010 Maturing in Fiscal Year FairMarketValue 3 (in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash $ 207 $ $ $ $ $ $ 207 $ 207 Cash Equivalents $ 812 $ $ $ $ $ $ 812 $ 812 Weighted Average Interest Rate1 0.10 % 0.10 % LIABILITIES Debt Obligations Fixed Rate Debt2 $ $ $ 250 $ $ 450 $ 700 $ 1,400 $ 1,534 Weighted Average Interest Rate 4.13 % 5.13 % 6.38 % 5.57 % Other Obligations $ 4 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ $ $ 6 $ 6 Weighted Average Interest Rate 2.61 % 2.80 % 4.74 % 2.82 % 54 Table of Contents June 30, 2009 Maturing in Fiscal Year FairMarketValue3 (in millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash $ 412 $ $ $ $ $ $ 412 $ 412 Cash Equivalents $ 214 $ $ $ $ $ $ 214 $ 214 Weighted Average Interest Rate1 0.4 % 0.4 % LIABILITIES Debt Obligations Allocated Corporate Debt $ 129 $ 183 $ 113 $ 106 $ $ 750 $ 1,281 $ 1,209 Weighted Average Interest Rate 1.79 % 6.53 % 5.31 % 5.47 % 5.44 % 5.22 % Other Obligations $ 1 $ 2 $ 1 $ 1 $ $ 3 $ 8 $ 8 Weighted Average Interest Rate 6.35 % 4.80 % 4.54 % 4.14 % 1.30 % 3.30 % 1 Represents weighted average interest rate for cash equivalents only; cash balances generally earn no interest. 2 Fixed rate notes are presented gross of a $16 million purchase discount at June 30, 2010. 3 The estimated fair value of our long term obligations and other short term borrowings was $1,540 million and $1,217 million at June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, respectively. The fair value of our senior notes at June 30, 2010 was based on quoted market prices. The fair value of the other obligations at June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009, including debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health, was based on either the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt and the current interest rates offered for debt of the same remaining maturities or estimated discounted cash flows. Included in the table above are debt obligations and related interest expense, including the effects of interest rate swap agreements, that were allocated to CareFusion by Cardinal Health for the year ended June 30, 2009 prior to the spinoff. These allocated debt instruments were retained by Cardinal Health as a result of the spinoff and were effectively replaced with the senior notes offered and sold on July 14, 2009. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. Foreign Currency Risk We are a global company with operations in multiple countries and are a net recipient of currencies other than the United States dollar (USD). Accordingly, a strengthening of the USD will negatively impact revenues and gross margins expressed in consolidated USD terms. Prior to the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009, we used derivative instruments indirectly through our participation in the centralized hedging program of Cardinal Health, which was designed to mitigate foreign currency risk. Cardinal Health did not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Currently, we have foreign exchange risk associated with currency exposure associated with existing assets and liabilities, committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk by using derivative contracts such as forwards, swaps and options with financial institutions to hedge our risks. In general, we will hedge material foreign exchange exposures up to twelve months in advance; however we may choose not to hedge some exposures for a variety of reasons including prohibitive economic costs. The realized and unrealized gains and losses of foreign currency forward contracts and the re measurement of foreign denominated receivables, payables and loans are recorded in the consolidated and combined statement of income. To the extent that cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, the unrealized gain or loss on the forward will be recorded to other comprehensive income (OCI). As the forecasted exposures affect earnings, the realized gain or loss on the forward contract will be moved from OCI to the consolidated and combined statements of income. 55 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding as of June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009: June 30, 2010 June 30, 2009 (in millions) NotionalAmount AverageContractRate NotionalAmount AverageContractRate Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Receive USD/pay foreign currency) Euro $ 13 1.2 $ 167 1.4 Australian Dollar 20 0.9 19 0.7 New Zealand Dollar 9 0.7 5 0.6 South African Rand 2 7.7 2 8.1 Norwegian Krone 2 6.3 Swedish Krona 2 7.6 Mexico Peso 2 13.0 8 13.4 Canadian Dollar 5 1.0 103 1.2 Japanese Yen 2 89.3 Indian Rupee 1 46.5 British Pound 33 1.6 Total $ 58 $ 337 Estimated Fair Value $ 1 $ (4 ) Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Pay USD/receive foreign currency) Mexican Peso $ 10 13.0 $ 27 13.4 Swiss Franc 5 1.1 Canadian Dollar 1 1.0 4 1.2 British Pound 20 1.5 68 1.4 Euro 8 1.2 25 1.6 Total $ 44 $ 124 Estimated Fair Value $ $ 1 Foreign Currency Forward Contracts: (Pay foreign currency/receive euros) British Pound $ 9 0.8 $ 13 0.9 Swiss Franc 19 1.4 Total $ 28 $ 13 Estimated Fair Value $ $ Commodity Price Risk Management We purchase commodities such as resins, printed circuit boards, latex, various fuel products and polystyrene, among others for use in our manufacturing processes. We typically purchase these commodities at market prices, and as a result are affected by market price fluctuations. We have historically, performed a sensitivity analysis on our forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year, but have chosen to not hedge these exposures as they were deemed to be insignificant. 56 Table of Contents 
 
