FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20030723115741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 July 23, 2003 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9700 94-3025021 (State or other jurisdiction Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or organization) File Number Identification Number) 120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information Provided Under Item 12) The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216. On July 23, 2003, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. - 1 -
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: July 23, 2003 /s/ Christopher V. Dodds ------------- ---------------------------- Christopher V. Dodds Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - 2 -
Exhibit Index 99.1 Press Release dated July 23, 2003 ("Schwab Announces Quarterly Results, Increases Dividend By 27% Following Profit Improvement") - 3 -

Exhibit 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media (San Francisco) Glen Mathison (415) 636-5448 Investors/Analysts Rich Fowler (415) 636-9869 SCHWAB ANNOUNCES QUARTERLY RESULTS, INCREASES DIVIDEND BY 27% FOLLOWING PROFIT IMPROVEMENT SAN FRANCISCO, July 23, 2003 - The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 was $126 million, up 77% from the first quarter 2003 total of $71 million, and 29% higher than the second quarter 2002 total of $98 million. Excluding a $15 million after-tax charge for excess facilities and a non-recurring tax benefit of approximately $11 million, Schwab's second quarter 2003 adjusted operating income was $130 million, up 106% from the $63 million generated in the prior quarter, and up 19% from the year-ago quarter's $109 million. For the first half of 2003, the Company's net income was $197 million, up 3% compared with the $192 million earned during the same period in 2002. Adjusted operating income for the first half of 2003 was $193 million, 12% lower than the $220 million total for the first six months of 2002. A table that reconciles net income to adjusted operating income is attached. In reviewing the second quarter, CEO David S. Pottruck commented, "Encouraging developments in both the geopolitical and economic arenas helped the securities markets rebound strongly from first quarter levels, and both client asset valuations and trading activity followed suit. Stronger inflows to actively managed equity mutual funds and an 11% increase in margin loan balances over the past quarter also pointed to heightened investor engagement. However, our 152,000 new account openings and less than $7 billion in net new assets for the second quarter indicate that many investors continue to approach the markets with hesitancy, leading us to remain cautious about the sustainability of our improved business results. We ended the second quarter with 7.7 million active accounts and $845 billion in client assets, down 4% and up 6%, respectively, from month-end June 2002." "The market environment during the second quarter of 2003 helped support a 13% increase in our revenues over the prior quarter, with every category showing improvement," the CEO said. "At the same time, the leverage provided by our continued expense discipline yielded a 77% increase in net income and a 12.3% after-tax profit margin, our highest since the first quarter of 2000. Similarly, the Company's adjusted operating income, which we continue to use in evaluating the firm's ongoing financial performance, doubled from quarter to quarter, and our 12.7% second quarter after-tax operating profit margin was the highest in three years. In comparison with the second quarter of last year, we gained ground as well - a 2% decline in revenues for the second quarter of 2003 was more than offset by a 6% decline in operating expenses, which resulted in a 19% increase in adjusted operating income." Chairman Charles R. Schwab noted, "Throughout the ups and downs of the markets, Schwab has continued to generate strong cash flows. In recognition of the continued strength of these cash flows and the recent changes in dividend taxation, the Board of Directors has approved a 27% increase in Schwab's quarterly cash dividend to 1.4 cents per share." The dividend is payable August 21, 2003 to stockholders of record August 7, 2003. Mr. Pottruck continued, "Even as our financial performance has improved dramatically, we remain focused on sustaining the Company's long-term growth by building our sources of revenue. We highlighted an important step forward in this effort during the second quarter by announcing that U.S. Trust has agreed to acquire State Street Corporation's Private Asset Management group (PAM), which provides wealth management services to clients in the New England area. This transaction helps expand the national footprint of a key business in our organization by giving U.S. Trust an immediate strong presence in an important wealth market. In addition, it enables us to add a full array of private banking capabilities to the investment management and fiduciary services already provided by PAM, which currently has about $11.7 billion in assets under management. We are currently awaiting regulatory approvals, and we expect that the transaction will close in the fourth quarter of 2003. U.S. Trust's total client assets equaled $114 billion as of month-end June, down 1% from a year ago." "We took another important step in building our business during the second quarter by launching Schwab Bank, N.A., which is currently focused on providing mortgage, line of credit and deposit services," Mr. Pottruck said. "These are the services most in demand from our clients as they look to simplify their financial affairs by building stronger relationships with partners they trust. Our banking offer was designed to stay true to our tradition of offering both great value and great service, and clients are responding - as of month-end June, Schwab Bank had originated approximately $180 million in first mortgages since its launch and had committed to fund almost $900 million more. In addition, client deposits totaled approximately $420 million." Mr. Pottruck said, "Faced with challenging market environments and an increasingly complex investing picture, many Schwab clients need and expect us to deliver the market wisdom, information, tools and services necessary to help them navigate towards their investing goals. Our recently completed Fresh Start campaign showcased our ability to do just that, and it attracted over 40,000 responses and $3.7 billion in additional assets to Schwab. During the second quarter we also completed the nationwide rollout of our Foundational Consultation, which is specifically designed to provide tailored investment guidance to clients with less than $100,000 in assets. This service complements our existing Comprehensive Consultation for clients with larger portfolios and helps ensure that any Schwab client seeking professional, personalized help in managing their investments can get that help quickly, efficiently and at a great value. Investors enrolled in our Schwab Private Client Service, which provides ongoing, face-to-face guidance to affluent clients that desire to retain day-to-day responsibility for managing their portfolios, now have access to Schwab Personal Portfolios(TM). This service combines the benefits of managed accounts - flexible, personalized, tax-sensitive investing by a Schwab portfolio manager - with the stock evaluation power of Schwab Equity Ratings(TM). Schwab Private Client continues to grow - there are now more than 10,300 clients with $10.3 billion in assets enrolled in this program. Net new client assets in accounts at Schwab with an ongoing advisory component - including Schwab Private Client, accounts managed by independent investment advisors (IAs), and U.S. Trust accounts - totaled over $3 billion during the second quarter of 2003, and total assets in these accounts equaled $371 billion, up 7% from month-end June 2002." Mr. Pottruck commented, "Our Services for Investment Managers (SIM) group continues to pursue their mission of delivering unparalleled service to the IAs who use Schwab for custody, trading and administrative support. Our team coordinated the inclusion of many IAs and their clients in the Fresh Start campaign, which ultimately attracted the clients of more than 700 advisory firms, who in turn contributed almost 40% of the net new assets generated by the program. During the second quarter, over 450 of our larger IA clients attended SIM-sponsored regional conferences, which focused on sharing best practices and discussing strategies to help them grow their businesses. We also enhanced our Advisor WebCenter(TM) website design and maintenance offering to include easier document uploads and a resource center that can provide online marketing support. More than 200 IAs are now using this service. Client referrals to IAs through our Schwab Advisor Network(TM) program totaled 5,700 during the second quarter of 2003, up 30% from the previous quarter. At month-end June, client assets at Schwab associated with IA referral programs equaled $15 billion, and total client assets under the guidance of IAs were a record $247 billion, up 15% and 7%, respectively, from a year ago." Mr. Pottruck said, "As part of our efforts to help actively trading clients measurably improve their trading results, we recently launched the Stock Selection online seminar, the third in a series of related educational workshops. These workshops deliver on-demand expert information - from people like Ken Tower, CyberTrader's chief market strategist, and Greg Miller, Schwab Active Trader's Chief Trading Officer - via the internet using streaming video and audio. We also released a new version of our CyberTrader Pro(R) direct market access software, which includes enhanced charting capabilities, streaming options data, and access to additional trading venues." "Schwab employees continue to harness technology to deliver superior client service in a variety of exciting ways," Mr. Pottruck commented. "We held over 1,200 local investing workshops and educational events during the second quarter which attracted over 12,000 attendees across the country. We also held another 55 Live Online Web-based interactive workshops, and offered several specialized Web-casts for our more affluent clients featuring commentary from our in-house experts. We created the Platinum Benefits Center on our Web site to make it easier for our Schwab Signature Platinum(R) clients to access these Web-casts, as well as the research, tools, and information that are available specifically for them. Additionally, now that a year has passed since the introduction of Schwab Equity Ratings, we have fulfilled our promise to provide transparent and thorough reporting on the performance of those ratings. Anyone can simply go to www.schwab.com, and click on "Markets and Research," then "Schwab Equity Ratings" to see how each of our ratings has performed over various rolling time periods. We currently have 4.1 million accounts with $329 billion in assets using online services at Schwab, versus 4.3 million accounts holding $308 billion in assets as of month-end June 2002; online trades made up 87% of all trades during the second quarter of 2003, up from 83% during the second quarter of 2002." "Our Corporate Services team also began offering new capabilities to their plan sponsor clients during the second quarter," Mr. Pottruck continued. "Our Schwab Service Scorecard(TM) is an online reporting tool that enables plan sponsors to track and monitor how well Schwab is serving their clients, and Schwab StockPlanManager(TM) is a Web-based system to help stock plan administrators manage their employee plans by providing secure access to employee demographics, grant and exercise information, as well as allowing real-time transfer of data to and from Schwab. Overall, our 401(k) offerings continue to attract clients - net new client assets placed in such accounts totaled just under $900 million during the second quarter of 2003, up 36% from the year ago quarter. Total client assets in employer-sponsored retirement plans at Schwab now total $101 billion, up 10% from the second quarter of 2002." "Our Capital Markets group bolstered its institutional equities trading capabilities during the second quarter by adding 10 more professionals to a team that now numbers more than 110," Mr. Pottruck said. "This group is responsible for building a business that has generated year-to-date 2003 revenues of $55 million, which is more than double the total for the first half of 2002. Institutional equities trading is an integral part of the Schwab Liquidity Network(TM), our market-making system designed to deliver very effective trade executions for both retail and institutional clients. We recently increased the number of securities traded by the Liquidity Network to over 11,000, up from about 5,000 at its launch in February. In addition, client interest in our financial product offerings remains strong - total client assets in fixed income securities equaled $131 billion as of month-end June, up 13% from June 2002." Mr. Pottruck added, "During the second quarter we began taking subscriptions for the Schwab Small-Cap Equity Fund(TM), which is designed to help clients participate in the growth potential of small U.S. companies through a single, diversified investment. This fund joins the Schwab Hedged Equity Fund(TM) and the Schwab Core Equity Fund(TM) in utilizing Schwab Equity Ratings to help guide stock selection. Client asset balances in mutual funds at Schwab totaled $352 billion at the end of June, including $85 billion in third-party Mutual Fund OneSource(R) funds, $25 billion in our clearing business, $84 billion in other third-party Mutual Fund Marketplace(R) funds, and $158 billion in proprietary SchwabFunds(R) and Excelsior(R) Funds." The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE:SCH), through Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC/NYSE), U.S. Trust Corporation, CyberTrader, Inc. and its other operating subsidiaries, is one of the nation's largest financial services firms serving investors through offices, regional client telephone service centers and automated telephonic and online channels. The Charles Schwab, U.S. Trust and CyberTrader Web sites can be reached at www.schwab.com, www.ustrust.com and www.cybertrader.com, respectively. ###


