FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20041015120312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 October 15, 2004 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-9700 94-3025021 (State or other jurisdiction Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or organization) File Number Identification Number) 120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition On October 15, 2004, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. - 1 -
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: October 15, 2004 /s/ Christopher V. Dodds ----------------- ------------------------------ Christopher V. Dodds Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - 2 -
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Exhibit Index 99.1 Press Release dated October 15, 2004 ("Schwab Reports Quarterly Results") - 3 -

Exhibit 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media (San Francisco) Greg Gable (415) 636-5847 Investors/Analysts Rich Fowler (415) 636-9869 SCHWAB REPORTS QUARTERLY RESULTS SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2004 - The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that $70 million in after-tax charges relating to its ongoing cost reduction effort and $87 million in after-tax losses from discontinued operations, virtually all of which relates to the sale of its capital markets business, led to a net loss of $41 million, or $.03 per share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Excluding these items and a $9 million after-tax gain on the sale of an investment, the Company's adjusted operating income was $107 million, or $.08 per share, for the third quarter of 2004. For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, the Company's net income and adjusted operating income were $233 million and $374 million, respectively. A table that reconciles net income to adjusted operating income is attached. Note: The Company's revenues and expenses for the third quarter of 2004 and prior quarters have been adjusted to summarize the impact of its capital markets business in the Discontinued Operations line on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The Discontinued Operations line now reflects both the past earnings and the pending sale of the capital markets business. In reviewing the third quarter, Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "As we transition the Company and intensify our focus on serving individual investors and the advisors who work with them, we took several important steps over the last few months. The first of these steps was our previously announced exit from the capital markets business, which we expect to complete during the fourth quarter. Additionally, in early October we announced a set of price reductions, which follows an initial round of reductions that took effect in June. Together, these reductions provide a lower price to every Schwab client who trades stocks online, reducing their trading costs by an average of about 20%." Mr. Schwab continued, "While our decision to exit the capital markets business and our ongoing cost reduction initiative led to after-tax charges in excess of $150 million and a net loss for the third quarter, clients continued to build relationships with Schwab. Excluding a $2.1 billion non-recurring inflow in September relating to our mutual fund clearing business, new and existing clients brought $10.9 billion in net new assets to the Company during the quarter. We are more committed than ever to providing great value and great service to both new clients and those who have already entrusted us with $1.0 trillion of their assets." CFO Christopher Dodds noted, "Our continued success in building relationships is also evident in our growing non-trading revenues - excluding a non-recurring gain on the sale of an investment, our non-trading revenues grew by 4% sequentially to reach a new record of $801 million in the third quarter of 2004. Our trading revenues, however, declined by 29% due to the reduced online equity commission rates and lower client activity levels. Our ongoing focus on simplifying and streamlining the Company resulted in a 5% sequential decline in operating expenses, resulting in adjusted operating income that was consistent with the prior quarter. The Company's solid financial foundation continues to support our ability to drive down our costs and deliver greater value to our clients as we move Schwab forward. This foundation, which includes a strong balance sheet with over $4.5 billion of stockholder equity, has also enabled us to increase our dividend by 43% this year, as well as pay down approximately $160 million in maturing long-term debt and repurchase approximately $150 million of our common stock." Mr. Dodds concluded, "While continuing geopolitical and energy market uncertainties, a close presidential race, and vacation season all pressured trading volumes during the third quarter, we have seen client activity start to pick up in October - daily average revenue trades averaged 148,000 for the first nine trading days of the month." As previously reported, the Company estimates that it will recognize approximately $75 million in after-tax charges associated with its withdrawal from the capital markets business during the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, management expects that fourth quarter restructuring charges associated with its cost reduction effort will be approximately $40 million after-tax. The Company estimates that its cost reduction effort will result in approximately $275 million in annualized cost savings by the end of 2004, with the expectation that the full benefit of these savings will be realized in 2005. Additional savings from cost reduction efforts to be implemented during 2005 have not been finalized. Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted): o For accounts at the Company with an ongoing advisory component (includes accounts enrolled in Schwab Private Client and Schwab Advised Investing(TM), accounts managed by independent investment advisors (IAs), and U.S. Trust(R) accounts): o Net new client assets during the quarter = $9 billion. o Total assets = $475 billion, up 22% year-over-year. o Total number of accounts = 1.4 million. Individual Investor Business o Number of clients enrolled in Schwab Private Client and Schwab Advised Investing = 35,400, up 27% from the prior quarter. o Introduced Instant Enrollment, a new streamlined process for enrolling Schwab clients in an offer. Schwab Institutional Business o Client referrals to IAs through Schwab Advisor Network(R) program during the quarter = 3,900, down 16% from the prior quarter. o Client assets at Schwab associated with IA referral programs = $23 billion, up 35% year-over-year and up approximately $650 million during the quarter. o Total client assets associated with Schwab Institutional = $316 billion, up 22% year-over-year. o Launched PortfolioCenter(TM), a desktop portfolio management system that provides custom analysis and reporting, streamlined processing for daily downloads, new security features and improved performance. o Debuted a new portfolio accounting system which enables IAs to track the cost basis for mutual funds, options and equities; also introduced the Custom Statement, which allows IAs to provide cost basis and realized and unrealized gain/loss data on their client statements. Corporate Services Business o Net new assets at Corporate Services during the third quarter = $701 million. o Total client assets in employer-sponsored retirement plans at Schwab = $122 billion, up 16% year-over-year. U.S. Trust Business o Total referrals from Schwab to U.S. Trust were over 330, compared with over 450 in the prior quarter. o Client assets at U.S. Trust associated with the referral program = $4.3 billion, up 60% year-over-year and up $290 million during the quarter. o Total client assets at U.S. Trust = $137 billion, up 18% year-over-year. Products o Total client assets held in third-party Mutual Fund OneSource(R) funds = $115 billion. o Total client assets held in proprietary funds (SchwabFunds(R), Excelsior(R) and other) = $152 billion. o Total client assets held in fixed income securities = $156 billion, up 16% year-over-year. o For Schwab Bank, N.A.: o Balance sheet assets = $4.1 billion, up 8% from the prior quarter. o Outstanding mortgage and home equity loans = $914 million. o First mortgage originations during the third quarter = $227 million. This earnings release contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations. These statements relate to expected cost reductions and charges for severance and excess real estate. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the extent of the workforce reduction associated with exiting the capital markets business, the impact of evolving real estate market conditions on sublease rates for the Company's excess office space, and the Company's ability to identify and implement the staffing reductions and other operating efficiencies necessary to achieve its cost reduction goals. The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE / Nasdaq:SCH), through Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC), U.S. Trust Corporation, CyberTrader(R), Inc. and its other operating subsidiaries, is one of the nation's largest financial services firms in terms of client assets. The Charles Schwab, U.S. Trust and CyberTrader Web sites can be reached at www.schwab.com, www.ustrust.com and www.cybertrader.com, respectively. ###


