FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20050525162304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 May 19, 2005 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) Delaware 1-9700 94-3025021 (State or other jurisdiction Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or organization) File Number Identification Number) 120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement Peter K. Scaturro Offer Letter - ------------------------------ On May 19, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The Charles Schwab Corporation ("Schwab") approved an offer letter to Peter K. Scaturro dated May 4, 2005 containing the terms of Mr. Scaturro's employment (the "Offer Letter") as Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Trust Corporation ("U.S. Trust"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Schwab. Under the Offer Letter, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.275 to this current report on Form 8-K, Schwab and Mr. Scaturro agreed to the following material terms and conditions: - Mr. Scaturro will receive an initial annual salary of $500,000. During 2005, he will be eligible for an annual target bonus of 400% of his annual salary, based on achievement of pre-determined performance objectives. - Mr. Scaturro will be granted options to purchase 500,000 shares of Schwab common stock, at an exercise price per share equal to the closing price of Schwab stock on the date of grant. The option will vest over four years, with 50% vesting on each of the third and fourth anniversary of the grant date. Mr. Scaturro also will be granted $2 million in restricted shares of Schwab common stock (valued on the grant date of May 19, 2005) that vest on the earlier of (1) the 5th anniversary of the grant date; or (2) March 15, 2008, provided that for each of the fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007, U.S. Trust achieves certain performance targets related to revenue growth, pre-tax profit margin, and net new assets. These awards were granted by the Committee at the same meeting at which the offer letter was approved. - Mr. Scaturro is entitled to participate in Schwab's long-term incentive program ("LTIP") for officers with a target grant in the range of $1 million to $1.25 million. - Mr. Scaturro is guaranteed to receive at least $2.5 million in cash compensation (salary and bonus) during the first 12 months of his employment ("Guarantee"). The Guarantee will not be paid if Mr. Scaturro resigns or is terminated for cause (the term "cause" is defined in the Offer Letter). The Guarantee is paid if Mr. Scaturro is terminated by Schwab without cause. - During the first 24 months of his employment, if Mr. Scaturro is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason (the term "good reason" is defined in the Offer Letter), Mr. Scaturro is entitled to one year's salary and bonus, and vesting of his initial stock option and restricted stock awards based on years of service already completed plus one additional year of service. In the event of the sale or merger of U.S. Trust, if Mr. Scaturro is not employed by the surviving entity, Mr. Scaturro is entitled to two years' salary and bonus, and vesting of his initial stock option and restricted stock awards based on years of service already completed plus two additional years of service. If Mr. Scaturro accepts an offer with the surviving entity, then Mr. Scaturro will be entitled to one year's salary and bonus and vesting of his initial stock option and restricted stock awards based on years of service already completed plus one additional year of service. Any amount paid under the Guarantee will not be taken into account in determining any payments made in any of the above cases. Payment of any severance benefits is in lieu of benefits under any other Schwab severance arrangement and is subject to execution of a severance agreement that includes, among other post-termination obligations, a release of claims. - 1 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION The foregoing description of the Offer Letter is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the Offer Letter attached as Exhibit 10.275 to this current report on Form 8-K, which are incorporated by reference herein. Alan J. Weber Separation Agreement - ---------------------------------- On May 19, 2005, the Committee approved the following key terms of a separation agreement with Alan J. Weber in connection with his retirement as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Trust: - Mr. Weber is deemed to have retired as a Schwab officer and from any and all U.S. Trust and Schwab directorships he holds, effective as of May 19, 2005. - Mr. Weber is entitled to cash lump sum payments totaling $1.4 million. - Mr. Weber will be treated as a retiree for purposes of all of his previously granted long-term awards, including stock options, restricted stock and cash LTIP units. Accordingly, all such long-term awards granted more than 2 years ago will be 100% vested and, in the case of stock options, will be fully exercisable. Mr. Weber will have 2 years after his separation date to exercise vested nonqualified stock options. - Schwab's obligations to provide the foregoing benefits and payments to Mr. Weber pursuant to the separation agreement are subject to the satisfaction by Mr. Weber of certain post-termination obligations including a release and waiver of claims. Grant of Restricted Stock and Stock Options to U.S. Trust Non-Employee Director - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- On May 19, 2005, the Committee approved the following awards under Schwab's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan to Mr. Robert N. Wilson for prior services during 2003 and 2004 as a non-employee director of U.S. Trust (these awards are equivalent to the value received by other U.S. Trust non-employee directors for such service): (1) 2,640 restricted shares with 50% vesting on the grant date and 50% vesting on the 1st anniversary of the grant date; (2) 2,620 restricted shares with 25% vesting on the grant date, 25% vesting on the 1st anniversary of the grant date and 50% vesting on the 2nd anniversary of the grant date; (3) an option to purchase 2,900 shares of Schwab common stock with 50% vesting on the grant date and 50% vesting on the 1st anniversary of the grant date; (4) an option to purchase 3,050 shares of Schwab common stock with 25% vesting on the grant date, 25% vesting on the 1st anniversary of the grant date and 50% vesting on the 2nd anniversary of the grant date. Each option has a term of 10 years and an exercise price per share equal to the closing price of Schwab stock on the date of grant. Mr. Wilson also serves as a non-employee director on Schwab's Board of Directors. Approval of an Amendment to the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan - --------------------------------------------------------- At Schwab's 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 19, 2005, the stockholders approved an amendment to Schwab's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan"). The amendment provides that non-employee directors will receive an initial grant of options on 10,000 shares of Schwab common stock and that the annual, automatic grants to non-employee directors will consist of (1) options on 5,000 shares of Schwab common stock, and (2) a number of restricted shares of Schwab common stock determined by dividing $60,000 by the fair market value of a share of Schwab common stock on the grant date. - 2 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Approval of an Amendment to the Corporate Executive Bonus Plan - -------------------------------------------------------------- At Schwab's 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 19, 2005, the stockholders approved an amendment to Schwab's Corporate Executive Bonus Plan (the "CEBP"). The CEBP, as amended, provides as follows: - Bonuses to executive officers will be based on attainment of certain performance objectives. Performance criteria may be measured on a corporate, subsidiary, enterprise or business unit basis, or a combination thereof. Performance criteria may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure of the selected performance criteria. Performance criteria include pre-tax operating profit margin, pre-tax reported profit margin, after-tax operating profit margin, after-tax reported profit margin, pre-tax operating profits, pre-tax reported profits, cash flow, revenues, revenue growth, operating revenue growth, client net new asset growth, return on assets, return on equity, return on investment, stockholder return and/or value, earnings per share, conversions of and/or increase in client assets, sales (of products, offers, or services) and changes between years or periods that are determined with respect to any of these performance criteria. - The maximum award that may be paid to any participant (other than the Chief Executive Officer) under the CEBP for any calendar year cannot exceed $8 million. The maximum award that may be paid to the Chief Executive Officer under the CEBP for any calendar year cannot exceed $15 million. - 3 -
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Exhibit Index 10.275 Peter K. Scaturro Offer Letter - 4 -
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: May 25, 2005 /s/ Christopher V. Dodds ----------------- ----------------------------- Christopher V. Dodds Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - 5 -

EXHIBIT 10.275 May 4, 2005 Peter K. Scaturro [Address] Dear Peter: On behalf of Charles Schwab Corporation ("Schwab"), it is our pleasure to extend this offer of employment to you. The position as discussed is Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Trust and will report directly to me. This offer is subject to approval by the Compensation Committee. We would like you to start work on May 10, 2005 or another mutually agreeable date after the acceptance of this offer. The annual base salary for the position is $500,000 (less applicable taxes, withholdings, and authorized deductions), payable semi-monthly or as otherwise consistent with our regular payroll practices. Additionally, the position makes you eligible to participate in the U.S. Trust Incentive Plan with a target bonus of 400% of your base annual salary. The annual bonus is discretionary and dependent upon individual and Company performance, and/or other criteria and conditions as set forth in the plan. Not withstanding the above, if you have not received at least $2,500,000 in total compensation (which includes salary, bonus, special awards, spot awards, or any other payments) attributable to you for your first 12 months of active and continuous employment, Schwab will pay you the difference between what you received and $2,500,000, less applicable taxes, withholdings, and authorized deductions. The difference will be determined at the end of the quarter in which the 12 month period ends and will be paid to you approximately six weeks after the end of that quarter; provided, however, if you are terminated for any reason other than Cause, as defined below, within the first 12 months of your employment, the difference will be determined at the end of the quarter in which your employment terminates and will be paid to you approximately six weeks after the end of that quarter. If you terminate your employment or are terminated for Cause, as defined below, and you are not employed for the full 12 month period, the guarantee set forth above will not apply, and you will only be paid your base salary and short-term incentive compensation actually earned by you while employed during the period. In the event that you are absent from your position for any reason (other than an approved vacation) for a period in excess of one week during the first 12 months but are still actively employed at the end of the 12 month Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 2 period, any payments will be pro-rated in accordance with the actual time spent performing the duties associated with your position as CEO of U.S. Trust. We will recommend to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors that you be granted 500,000 stock options to buy shares of the common stock of The Charles Schwab Corporation (Symbol: SCH), and $2,000,000 (valued at the date of the grant) in restricted shares of SCH stock as soon as practicable after your hire date. Both stock option and restricted share awards are subject to the discretion and approval of the Compensation Committee. We will recommend to the Compensation Committee that the stock options vest at the end of years three and four (50% on each date) of the anniversary date of the grant, subject to continued employment. The exercise (strike) price for the options will be the closing price of SCH stock on the date of the grant, which is the date of the Compensation Committee's approval. Subject to continued employment, the restricted shares will vest at the end of five years from the date of the grant with accelerated vesting between the second and fourth grant date anniversaries, if specified performance goals established by the Compensation Committee are achieved. Grants of stock options and restricted shares are subject to the terms and conditions of the particular plan(s) and agreement(s). For 2005, you will be eligible to participate in Schwab's long-term incentive program for officers with a target long-term incentive grant in the range of $1,000,000 to $1,250,000. During the first 24 months of your employment, if Schwab terminates your employment for any reason other than Cause, as defined below, or if you resign all positions with Schwab and its affiliates for Good Reason, as defined below, then Schwab shall immediately make a lump sum severance payment to you in an amount equal to your compensation (salary and bonuses paid under the U.S. Trust Incentive Plan) during the previous 12 months and the vested portion of the stock options and restricted shares set forth above will be at least equal to (i) the whole years of service that you have completed with Schwab plus one additional year of service; over (ii) the total number of years of service for the award to be fully vested, i.e., four, in the case of stock options, and five, in the case of restricted shares. Any amount paid to you under the guarantee set forth above (i.e., the difference, if any, between what you were paid in the first 12 months of your employment and $2,500,000) will not be taken into account in determining the amount of the lump sum severance payment. The severance benefits under this paragraph will be in lieu of and not in addition to any severance benefits that you may be eligible to receive under any Schwab severance arrangement. "Good Reason" means that you have not been terminated for Cause and elect to resign after there has been a material diminution or reduction of your title, authority, position, duties or responsibilities. "Cause" is defined as termination of employment based on a determination by the Board of Directors of Schwab that employment be terminated for any of the following reasons: (i) indictment, conviction, or admission of (including a plea of guilty or nolo Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 3 contendere to) any felony or of any crime involving dishonesty or moral turpitude; (ii) violation of any law, rule, regulation or by-law of any securities exchange or association or other regulatory or self regulatory body or agency applicable to Schwab or any of its affiliates; (iii) participation in any act of fraud, embezzlement, theft, or malfeasance against Schwab, its affiliates or customers; (iv) breach of any agreement to which you and Schwab are parties; (v) violation of Schwab's policy prohibiting harassment, discrimination, or retaliation in the workplace, Schwab's Compliance Manual, or Schwab's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; (vi) use of alcohol or drugs that interferes with the performance of your duties or which compromises the integrity or reputation of Schwab, its affiliates, employees, or products; (vii) willful failure by you, after given notice and a reasonable opportunity to correct, to perform your duties, other than failure resulting from your complete or partial incapacity due to a physical or mental illness; (viii) intentional damage to any property of Schwab or its affiliates; and (ix) absence from your employment, other than as a result of disability pursuant to Schwab's short-term disability plan, vacation, or sabbatical for a period of more than four (4) weeks without my prior consent. This provision does not alter or modify your at-will employment relationship. Your employment relationship with Schwab and its affiliates will be "at will," which means that your employment is for no definite period of time and that you and Schwab are free to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without advance warning, notice, investigation, or cause. In the event of a sale of substantially all of the assets of U.S. Trust by Schwab or a merger or consolidation in which U.S. Trust is not the surviving entity and if you do not remain employed by Schwab or a related entity, you will receive a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to two times your compensation (salary and bonuses actually paid to you under the U.S. Trust Incentive Plan) during the previous 12 months before such sale, merger, or consolidation and the vested portion of the stock options and restricted shares set forth above will be at least equal to (i) the whole years of service that you have completed with Schwab plus two additional years of service; over (ii) the total number of years of service for the award to be fully vested, i.e., four, in the case of your stock options, and five, in the case of your restricted shares. If you accept an offer of employment with such surviving entity, you will receive a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to your compensation (salary and bonuses paid under the U.S. Trust Incentive Plan) during the previous 12 months before such sale, merger, or consolidation and the vested portion of the stock options and restricted shares set forth above will be at least equal to (i) the whole years of service that you have completed with Schwab plus one additional year of service; over (ii) the total number of years of service for the award to be fully vested, i.e., four, in the case of your stock options, and five, in the case of your restricted shares. Any amount paid to you under the guarantee set forth above (i.e., the difference, if any, between what you were paid in the first 12 months of your employment and $2,500,000) will not be taken into account in determining the amount of Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 4 the lump sum cash payments under this paragraph. The severance benefits under this paragraph will be in lieu of and not in addition to any severance benefits that you may be eligible to receive under any Schwab severance arrangement; provided, however, if such severance arrangement provides greater benefits to you, you may elect to receive the benefits under such arrangement in lieu of the benefits provided under this paragraph. In the event that it is determined that any payment or distribution of any type to or for your benefit made by Schwab, by any of its affiliates, by any person who acquires ownership or effective control or ownership of a substantial portion of Schwab's assets (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder (the "Code")) or by any affiliate of such person, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement or otherwise, would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest or penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then such payments or distributions or benefits shall be payable either (i) in full; or (ii) as to such lesser amount which would result in no portion of such payments or distributions or benefits being subject to the Excise Tax. You shall receive the greater, on an after-tax basis, of (i) or (ii). Unless you and Schwab agree otherwise in writing, any determination required under this paragraph will be made in writing by Schwab's independent accountant (the "Accountant") whose determination shall be conclusive and binding. You and Schwab will furnish the Accountant such documentation and documents as the Accountant may reasonably request in order to make a determination. Schwab shall bear all costs that the Accountant may reasonably incur in connection with performing any calculations contemplated by this paragraph. As a condition to the receipt of any severance benefits described in this Agreement, you will be required to execute a severance agreement. In Schwab's sole discretion, such agreement may include without limitation, but is not limited to, provisions relating to (i) non-disparagement and non-disclosure; (ii) non-solicitation of customers, clients and employees; (iii) use of confidential and proprietary information; (iv) return of company property; (v) cooperation with investigations, arbitrations, and litigation; (vi) release and waiver of all legal claims; and (vii) authorized deductions (if any). We are pleased to offer our regular employees a valuable benefits package. Regular, full-time employees are eligible for medical, dental, vision, disability, and life insurance coverage. Eligibility begins on the first of the month following the start date and, if your start date is May 16, 2005, the eligibility date will be June 1, 2005. A benefit email will be sent to you approximately 4-5 days after all of your paperwork has been processed by Payroll. (Regardless of when an employee enrolls, benefits coverage begins on the eligibility date, Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 5 even if hired late in the month.) You must enroll for benefits coverage within 31 days of your start date, or you will automatically be enrolled in the default plan, which provides reduced coverage for the employee only. If you do not receive your benefit email within 10 days of your start date, email HRDirect@Schwab.com or call 800-725-3535. If you have questions about company benefits, please contact Bryan Allen, Managing Director, Human Resources. Since there is a brief waiting period for benefits coverage, you may want to consider electing health insurance continuation (COBRA) coverage from your previous employer. Regular, full-time employees also are eligible to enroll in our 401(k) plan on the first day of the month following three complete calendar months of employment. If you begin work on May 16, 2004 you will be eligible to enroll in the 401(k) plan on September 1, 2005. The 401(k) plan has a matching contribution component for enrolled employees who are employed on the last day of the calendar year. Eligibility and benefits under the 401(k) plan are subject to the terms and conditions of the plan. As an executive officer of Schwab, you will be eligible to participate in any employee benefits, long term incentive plans, and other programs applicable to other Schwab/US Trust executive officers. Additionally, as an executive officer of Schwab, you will be eligible to receive an annual flexible perquisite allowance of $36,000.00, less applicable taxes, withholding and authorized deductions, which is paid monthly, to cover certain costs. This program will give you the flexibility to spend your perquisite dollars in the way that best meets your individual needs. Such benefits, plans, and programs may change from time to time. Schwab also will provide a driver and car service for your use in commuting to and from work as well as for business related travel. Commuting expenses represent personal use and will be taxable to you and Schwab will not provide a tax gross-up on this amount. This letter Agreement is the entire agreement between you and Schwab as to the terms of your offer of employment (including severance, if any) and the duration or continuation of your employment relationship and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous agreements, representations, understandings, or arrangements, whether written or oral, that may be inconsistent with the at-will nature of the relationship and the terms of the offer of employment. The at-will agreement can not be modified without the express written agreement signed by me. Nothing in this letter Agreement is intended to constitute a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event this Agreement or any benefit paid to you under this offer is deemed to be subject to Section 409A of the Code, you consent to Schwab's adopting such conforming amendments as it deems necessary, in its sole discretion, to comply with Section 409A of the Code, without reducing the amounts of any benefits due to you under this Agreement. Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 6 It is important that your employment with Schwab not conflict with or be constrained by any prior employment. We wish to impress upon you that we do not want you to bring with you any confidential or proprietary material of any former employer or to violate any other obligation to your former employers. In addition, by signing this letter, you represent and acknowledge that you are not subject to any agreement that would prevent or materially impair your ability to accept and perform the employment duties contemplated by this offer. You further agree to indemnify Schwab against any liability and hold it harmless from and pay any loss, damage, cost and expense which Schwab incurs from a judgment, arbitration award, or settlement in which payment for damages are made against any claims made by any former employer arising out of or in connection with your hiring by Schwab. Additionally, in the event you are named as a party in any enforcement proceeding by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory agency in connection with or arising out of your previous employment, Schwab may take disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination. This provision is not intended to alter or modify your at-will status of employment with Schwab. Your offer of employment is contingent on your cooperation in providing relevant personal knowledge or other necessary information to complete the background screening, as well as the completion and return of the required documents that are conditions of employment. Schwab has developed numerous policies and procedures relating to Compliance, Human Resources, Information Security and other areas (which may be changed from time to time in the sole discretion of Schwab and/or its affiliates). All employees are expected to be familiar with these policies and procedures and to review them on a periodic basis throughout their employment. These policies and procedures contain important information about Schwab's prohibition against harassment and discrimination in the workplace, compliance requirements, confidentiality and security of information, leave programs, and other important information. At the end of this letter are important notices about several conditions of employment for your review. In addition, there are several attached forms and notices (also conditions of employment), which must be signed and returned on your first day of employment to Bryan Allen to enable prompt payroll processing. If you have any questions feel free to contact Bryan Allen at [telephone]. Letter to Peter K. Scaturro May 4, 2005 Page 7 Peter, I hope that you elect to accept this offer of employment. Kindly sign your name at the end of this letter to signify your understanding and acceptance of these terms and that no one at Schwab has made any other representation to you. Sincerely, /s/ Charles Schwab Charles Schwab Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Charles Schwab Corporation Accepted: /s/ Peter K. Scaturro Date: May 8, 2005 -------------------------------------------- ----------- Peter K. Scaturro


