FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20051215150114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 3.01.    Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
 
(d) On December 9, 2005, the Board of Directors of The Charles Schwab Corporation (the Company), an issuer that is dually listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq), authorized the Company to withdraw the listing of its common stock from the NYSE. The Company notified the NYSE that its common stock will be listed solely on Nasdaq under the symbol SCHW beginning December 20, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Contact:
News Release
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION TO LIST SOLELY ON NASDAQ
Trading under new symbol "SCHW" to begin December 20, 2005
SAN FRANCISCO, DECEMBER 15, 2005--
The Charles Schwab Corporation today announced that it will list its common stock on the NASDAQ National Market exclusively, ending the dual listing of its stock on both NASDAQ and the New York Stock Exchange.
"We are delighted to be more closely associated with NASDAQ and its impressive group of listed companies," said Charles R. Schwab, Schwab Founder, Chairman and CEO. "Since its inception, NASDAQ has shown a spirit of innovation and a focus on leveraging technology to provide investors the benefit of fast, high quality and low cost trade executions. After a dual listing trial of nearly two years, we are convinced of NASDAQ's commitment to a highly competitive, well regulated marketplace that is optimal for trading our stock."
Schwab plans to cease trading on the New York Stock Exchange and elsewhere under its NYSE symbol SCH effective with the market close on December 19, 2005. The company's stock will begin trading on the NASDAQ National Market under the new symbol SCHW upon market open December 20, 2005.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE/NASDAQ: SCH), through its operating subsidiaries, provides securities brokerage and financial services to individual investors and the independent investment advisors who work with them. With over 7 million individual investor accounts and more than $1 trillion in client assets, The Charles Schwab Corporation is one of the nation's largest financial services firms. Its subsidiary Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC) provides a complete range of investment services and products, including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plans; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. Its subsidiary Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The corporation's other operating subsidiaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (membe r FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC) (A05-105 / 82043). These companies' Web sites can be reached at www.schwab.com,www.schwabbank.com,www.ustrust.com,and www.cybertrader.com.
About NASDAQ
NASDAQ is the largest electronic screen-based equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom at www.nasdaq.com/newsroom/. (0005-7038)


