FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20060118151431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 18, 2006, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO, January 18, 2006  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $187 million. In comparison, the Company reported net income of $53 million for the fourth quarter of 2004 and net income of $207 million for the third quarter of 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company's net income was a record $725 million, compared with net income of $286 million in 2004.
 
 
 
Note: The three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2004 include after-tax restructuring charges of $62 million and $133 million, respectively, and after-tax losses from discontinued operations of $49 million and $128 million, respectively. See Reconciliation of Net Income to Adjusted Operating Income for additional information.
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "Throughout 2005, we have focused on restoring our value proposition, reconnecting with our clients and improving our financial performance. During the year, we completed a series of price reductions representing an investment in our clients of more than $375 million annually. We also made great progress in building stronger client relationships. In December alone, clients brought $9 billion in net new assets to the Company  the seventh straight month of net new assets in excess of $6 billion. For 2005, net new assets totaled $75 billion, 49% higher than 2004. Total client assets reached a record $1.199 trillion by year-end, up 11% from year-end 2004. We turned this success with clients into the best earnings year in our history, with net income and earnings per share surpassing the records set back in 2000. I'm immensely proud of the way the Schwab team pulled together in 2005 and delivered such outstanding performance."
 
CFO Christopher Dodds said, "Even with $18 million in pre-tax severance charges and a $30 million investment in our "Talk to Chuck" national advertising campaign in the fourth quarter, we were able to generate earnings of $187 million, the fourth best quarter in Schwab's history. For 2005, we exceeded all of our primary financial objectives, which included mid single-digit percentage revenue growth, a pre-tax profit margin of at least 25%, earnings per share of at least $.50, and a return on equity of at least 15%. As a result of our success with clients and disciplined expense management, we achieved 6% revenue growth, a 26.5% pre-tax margin, and earnings per share of $.55 for 2005. On the capital management front during the year, we limited our capital
expenditures to $100 million, reduced our long-term debt by $71 million, increased our dividend by 25%, and repurchased $688 million of common stock. These actions contributed to a return on equity of 16% for 2005, our best performance since 2000."
 
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
 
Advised Investing
 
 
 
 
 
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services businesses, which were previously discussed separately)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Trust Business
 
 
 
Products
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NASDAQ: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 325 offices, 7.1 million client accounts, and $1.2 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the Company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member ), offers a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The Company's other operating subsidiaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (member FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member ). More information is available at .
SIPC
SIPC
www.aboutschwab.com
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statement of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statement of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company
 
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., U.S. Trust Corporation, and CyberTrader, Inc. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to summarize the impact of the Company's sales of its capital markets business, Schwab Soundview Capital Markets, and its U.K. brokerage subsidiary, Charles Schwab Europe, in gain (loss) from discontinued operations. The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2005. Certain prior periods' revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


