FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20060417135725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 17, 2006, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
SAN FRANCISCO, April 17, 2006  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 was $243 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $187 million for the fourth quarter of 2005 and net income of $145 million for the first quarter of 2005.
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "Our focus on building stronger relationships with our clients  providing the help and investment solutions they want  is working. We also believe our ongoing national advertising campaign is helping to strengthen our business momentum. Clients opened 188,000 new brokerage accounts during the first quarter of 2006, 25% higher than a year ago, while net new assets totaled $28.1 billion, up 75% from a year ago. I'm proud that we ended March with a record $1.281 trillion in total client assets, up 19% from a year ago. Our progress in the first three months of 2006 is also reflected in financial performance that includes 21% net revenue growth and the best quarterly earnings since we began our turnaround in mid-2004."
CFO Chris Dodds said, "Improved client asset flows, higher equity valuations, and increased trading activity all contributed to making our first quarter 2006 net revenues the highest in over five years. Cost discipline across the company enabled us to limit expense growth to just 8%, and we achieved a record 31.2% pre-tax profit margin for the quarter even after incurring $25 million in severance charges. Our first quarter net income reached $243 million, up 68% from a year ago, which gives us a robust start towards continued financial progress in 2006. That start includes an ongoing focus on capital management  just $23 million in capital expenditures and another $154 million in share repurchases helped us to achieve a 21% return on equity for the quarter."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Advised Investing
 
 
 
 
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services businesses)
 
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Trust Business
 
 
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NASDAQ: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 325 offices, 6.7 million client brokerage accounts, 512,000 401(k) plan participants, 175,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member ), offers a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The company's other operating subsidiaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (member FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member ). More information is available at .
SIPC
SIPC
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., U.S. Trust Corporation, and CyberTrader, Inc. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to summarize the impact of the Company's sales of its capital markets business, Schwab Soundview Capital Markets, and its U.K. brokerage subsidiary, Charles Schwab Europe, in gain (loss) from discontinued operations. The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Certain prior periods' revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


