FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20060131152737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On January 26, 2006, on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors (the Board) of The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) elected Marjorie Magner to the Board to serve as a member of the class of directors whose term expires at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2006. The Board determined that Ms. Magner is independent under the independence standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market. The Board appointed Ms. Magner to serve on the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
On January 31, 2006, CSC issued a press release announcing Ms. Magner's appointment to the Board. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Contact:
News Release
SCHWAB NAMES MARJORIE MAGNER TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 31, 2006--
The Charles Schwab Corporation today announced the appointment of Marjorie Magner to its board of directors, effective Jan. 26, 2006. She becomes the 12th member of the Schwab Board.
Magner, 56, was chairman and CEO of the Global Consumer Group for Citigroup until her retirement in October, 2005, following a nearly 20-year career at Citigroup. She brings to the Schwab board more than 30 years of exceptional leadership experience, built up through a variety of management roles at Citigroup and Chemical Bank.
"I'm delighted to welcome Marge to our board," said Charles R. Schwab, founder, chairman and CEO of The Charles Schwab Corporation. "She has a tremendous background in all facets of retail banking, as well as vital experience managing sustained growth within a financial services organization, both of which are central priorities of Schwab's business today."
Magner has been widely recognized for her business leadership, including recognition on the FORTUNE magazine list of Most Powerful Women in Business in 2000 through 2004. She currently is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brooklyn College Foundation and a member of the Dean's Advisory Council at Krannert School of Management at Purdue University.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NASDAQ: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 325 offices, 7.1 million client accounts, and $1.2 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the Company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC), offers a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The Company's other operating subsi diaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (member FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC). More information is available at www.aboutschwab.com.


