FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20061016145231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 16, 2006, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
SAN FRANCISCO, October 16, 2006  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 was $266 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $251 million for the second quarter of 2006 and net income of $207 million for the third quarter of 2005. For the first nine months of 2006, the Company's net income was $760 million, compared with $538 million earned during the same period in 2005.
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "We continue to focus on delivering great value, performance and service in building relationships with our clients. As previously announced, we instituted a number of price reductions effective July 1
st
, including the elimination of various service and account fees. In recognition of our ability to help clients improve their investment performance, Barron's once again awarded Schwab top honors in its semi-annual stock recommendation competition for both the three- and five-year performance categories. These accomplishments, combined with our commitment to service and building client loyalty, supported solid client metrics during the traditionally slower summer season. Net new assets totaled $21 billion in the third quarter and clients opened 137,000 new brokerage accounts. With strong asset flows and improved valuations in the securities markets, total client assets rose 14% to a record $1.332 trillion by month-end September. Our progress with clients is also reflected in our third quarter financial performance, including 13% net revenue growth and a 29% increase in earnings."
CFO Chris Dodds said, "Non-trading revenues reached a new record of $1.122 billion, or 87% of total net revenues, in the third quarter. Our reduced reliance on more volatile trading revenue, combined with ongoing expense discipline, is enabling us to deliver more consistent and predictable margins and earnings. We limited overall expense growth to just 5% during the quarter, helping us achieve a record 33.9% pre-tax profit margin and the second highest level of quarterly earnings in the firm's history. We also remain committed to rigorous capital management  outlays for capital expenditures totaled just $38 million during the quarter while common stock repurchases totaled $300 million, contributing to a 23% return on equity."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services)
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
 
U.S. Trust Business
 
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 330 offices and 6.8 million client brokerage accounts, 535,000 corporate retirement plan participants, 181,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), offers a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The company's other operating subsidiaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (member FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org). More information is available at
www.schwab.com.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., U.S. Trust Corporation, and CyberTrader, Inc. The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Certain prior periods' revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


