FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20060718144751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2006, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
SAN FRANCISCO, July 18, 2006  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 was $251 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $243 million for the first quarter of 2006 and net income of $186 million for the second quarter of 2005. For the first half of 2006, the Company's net income was $494 million, compared with $331 million earned during the same period in 2005.
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "During the second quarter, economic news was mixed and the broad market indices declined. Throughout this more challenging environment, we remained intent on listening to our clients and responding to their needs. This ongoing focus supported continued strength in our client metrics  we opened 173,000 new brokerage accounts and clients brought $22 billion in net new assets to the company during the period, up 20% and 93%, respectively, from year-ago levels. Total client assets reached $1.278 trillion as of June 30, 2006, 16% higher than month-end June 2005. Our success in building stronger client relationships is also reflected in our financial performance  net revenues were up 21% versus the second quarter of 2005 and earnings were up 35%."
CFO Chris Dodds said, "Continued strength in client asset flows helped push our asset-based and other revenues to a record $1.1 billion for the second quarter, while overall net revenues reached just over $1.3 billion. On the expense front, advertising and market development costs increased 37% versus the second quarter of 2005 as we invested in our national "Talk to Chuck" campaign. Compensation and benefits expense rose by 16% as we made additional year-to-date bonus and long-term incentive plan accruals to reflect our above-plan performance thus far in 2006. As a percentage of net revenues, however, compensation and benefits declined to 40% versus 42% a year ago. All other expenses grew just 9% in the aggregate, enabling us to achieve a record pre-tax profit margin of 31.4% for the second quarter. On the capital management front, we limited our outlays for capital expenditures to $36 million and repurchased $292 million of our common stock during the quarter, which helped us achieve a 22% return on equity."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services businesses)
 
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
 
 
U.S. Trust Business
 
 
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NASDAQ: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 330 offices and 6.8 million client brokerage accounts, 521,000 corporate retirement plan participants, 178,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member ), offers a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. The company's other operating subsidiaries include U.S. Trust Corporation (member FDIC) and CyberTrader, Inc. (member ). More information is available at .
SIPC
SIPC
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., U.S. Trust Corporation, and CyberTrader, Inc. The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Certain prior periods' revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


