FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20070417163812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 17, 2007, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)    Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated April 17, 2007 ("Schwab Reports Quarterly Results")
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 was $273 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $243 million for the first quarter of 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 17, 2007
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "During the first quarter, investors faced heightened economic uncertainty and securities market volatility. In this more challenging environment, we continued our success in building stronger client relationships. New and existing clients brought $33.5 billion in net new assets to Schwab during the quarter, up 27% from last year's first quarter and our best net inflow since the third quarter of 2000. An additional $17.8 billion in net new assets associated with the acquisition of The 401(k) Company, which closed on March 31
st
, helped total client assets rise by 16% year-over-year to a record $1.306 trillion at March 31, 2007. Clients opened 193,000 new brokerage accounts during the first quarter, and after five consecutive months of net account growth our total active brokerage accounts were up 2% from last March to 6.8 million at quarter-end. At the same time, banking accounts grew by 9% from the first quarter of 2006 to 151,000, and we ended March 2007 with over 1 million corporate retirement plan participants served directly by Schwab, up from just over 500,000 a year earlier."
CFO Chris Dodds said, "Continued success in building client relationships means continued growth in less-volatile non-trading revenues, which reached a record $951 million in the first quarter, up 15% from the first quarter of 2006. With more predictable revenues and sustained expense discipline, we remained focused on delivering consistently strong financial performance  despite reduced client trading activity late in the quarter we were able to increase our marketing investment by 35% over last year and still achieve a 33.9% pre-tax profit margin and $273 million in net income. Rigorous capital management remained a priority as well  with capital expenditures of just $39 million and $391 million in share repurchases during the first quarter, we achieved a 22% return on equity."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services)
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 6.8 million client brokerage accounts, 1.1 million corporate retirement plan participants, 151,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC, ) is an electronic trading technology and brokerage firm providing services to highly active, online traders. More information is available at
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and CyberTrader, Inc. All periods have been adjusted to summarize the impact of CSC's sale of U.S. Trust Corporation in income from discontinued operations. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
Note: All amounts have been adjusted to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation in light of its pending sale. Total client assets at U.S. Trust as of March 31, 2007 were $166.0 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: All amounts have been adjusted to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation in light of its pending sale. Total client assets at U.S. Trust as of March 31, 2007 were $166.0 billion.
 
 
 
 
 


