FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20070117161811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 17, 2007, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 was $467 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $266 million for the third quarter of 2006 and $187 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the company's net income was a record $1.2 billion, compared with $725 million in 2005. The company's fourth quarter and full-year results include a $205 million non-cash tax benefit relating to its pending sale of U.S. Trust; further details on the tax benefit are provided at the end of this release.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 17, 2007
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "In 2006, we sharpened our focus on individual investors and independent advisors with the sale of U.S. Trust and the acquisition of The 401(k) Company. We also continued to build stronger client relationships and improve our financial performance. Total client assets rose 18% in 2006 to $1.2 trillion at year-end, while net new assets rose 33% to $87 billion in our core Schwab Investor Services and Schwab Institutional businesses. Additionally, new brokerage accounts rose 15% in 2006 to 655,000, reflecting the continued success of our "Talk to Chuck" advertising. These client metrics reflect both our emphasis on value, performance, and service and the superb efforts of all the employees on the Schwab team. Once again, we combined our client success with financial discipline, and our 2006 net income and earnings per share set new records. Our momentum is building, and I'm excited about the opportunities that lie ahead in 2007 and beyond."
CFO Chris Dodds said, "For 2006, we set out to accelerate our revenue growth, limit our expense growth while investing in our client service capabilities, and build our margins, earnings and return on equity. We delivered on all fronts  net revenues grew 19% in 2006 versus 6% in 2005, expense growth was held to 9% over the 2005 level even as client loyalty improved and attrition declined, our pre-tax profit margin improved from 28% to 34%, and net income passed the $1 billion milestone. Our ongoing commitment to rigorous capital management resulted in net capital expenditures of just $59 million, a reduction in our long-term debt of $74 million, a doubling of our dividend, $859 million of common stock repurchases, and a return on equity of 26% for the year."
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (includes Individual Investor and Corporate and Retirement Services)
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional
Business
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tax Benefit
The $205 million tax benefit recognized by Schwab in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulted from the difference between the tax and financial reporting bases of the company's U.S. Trust stock. When calculating Schwab's gain on the sale of U.S. Trust, the tax basis will be the basis of U.S. Trust's prior stockholders in their shares as of the date U.S. Trust was acquired by Schwab, since the transaction qualified as a tax-free exchange. Generally accepted accounting principles call for the recognition of the tax effects of stock basis differences once a commitment is in place to sell a subsidiary and the subsidiary's results are presented as a "discontinued operation." The fourth quarter tax benefit is intended to equalize the tax and reporting bases in the company's U.S. Trust stock as of year-end 2006; it is, however, an estimate based on publicly available information. The final amount of the basis difference will be determined following a survey that the company expects to complete within the next six months.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 6.7 million client brokerage accounts, 542,000 corporate retirement plan participants, 147,000 banking accounts, and $1.2 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org) is an electronic trading technology and brokerage firm providing services to highly active, online traders. More information is available at
www.schwab.com.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and CyberTrader, Inc. All periods have been adjusted to summarize the impact of CSC's sale of U.S. Trust Corporation in income from discontinued operations. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Certain prior periods' revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
Note: All amounts have been adjusted to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation in light of its pending sale. Total client assets at U.S. Trust as of December 31, 2006 were $165.3 billion.
 
 
 
 
Note: All amounts have been adjusted to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation in light of its pending sale. Total client assets at U.S. Trust as of December 31, 2006 were $165.3 billion.
 
 
 
 
 


