FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20071015155635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2007, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 was $1.5 billion, including a $1.2 billion after-tax gain on the sale of U.S. Trust. Income from continuing operations, which excludes the impact of U.S. Trust, was $323 million for the quarter. In comparison, the company reported income from continuing operations of $256 million and $230 million, respectively, for the second quarter of 2007 and third quarter of 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2007
 
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "We believe our progress in building stronger relationships with our clients and helping them achieve better financial results is reflected in our solid fundamentals during a summer marked by significant securities market volatility  new and existing clients brought $37.3 billion in net new assets to Schwab during the third quarter, up 66% from last year, and total client assets reached a record $1.441 trillion at month-end September. In addition, clients opened 183,000 new brokerage accounts during the third quarter  up 35% from the year-ago period  and we are now serving 212,000 bank accounts and 1.2 million retirement plan participants, up from 143,000 and 535,000, respectively, last September."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "Our non-trading revenues set another record at $1.1 billion for the third quarter, up 19% year-over-year, helped by the incremental interest revenue generated by temporarily investing the proceeds from the sale of U.S. Trust. In addition, strong trading activity pushed total revenues to $1.3 billion, up 21%. Our sustained expense discipline enabled us to increase our third quarter marketing investment by 42% over last year and still achieve a pre-tax profit margin of 39.7%. We also demonstrated our ongoing commitment to rigorous capital management in recent weeks by completing a $2.1 billion stock tender offer and a $1.2 billion special cash dividend, as well as issuing $550 million in medium-term notes and hybrid capital securities, which wrapped up our previously announced capital restructuring."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (SIS)
 
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business (SI)
 
 
 
Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services Business (SCRS)
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 306 offices and 6.9 million client brokerage accounts, 1.2 million corporate retirement plan participants, 212,000 banking accounts, and $1.4 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC, ) is an electronic trading technology and brokerage firm providing services to highly active, online traders. More information is available at .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and CyberTrader, Inc. All periods have been adjusted to summarize the impact of CSC's sale of U.S. Trust Corporation in income from discontinued operations. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2006 included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 17, 2007. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


