FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20070717142209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2007, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 was $292 million. In comparison, the company reported net income of $273 million for the first quarter of 2007 and net income of $251 million for the second quarter of 2006. For the first half of 2007, the Company's net income was $565 million, compared with $494 million earned during the same period in 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 17, 2007
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "Our focus is to make investing affordable, to reward saving, and to help clients achieve better total outcomes. We recently made it easier to establish a relationship with the company by lowering account opening minimums, waiving minimums completely under certain circumstances, and eliminating all minimum balance charges. We also raised the interest rate paid on balances in Schwab Bank Investor Checking accounts, enabling us to deliver the combined benefits of a fully-featured high-yield checking account and a full-service brokerage account free of monthly service fees or minimum balance or deposit requirements. Actions like these contribute to stronger client relationships, and total client assets reached $1.384 trillion at month-end June 2007, up 23% from June 2006. Clients opened 206,000 new brokerage accounts during the second quarter, 20% more than the year-earlier period."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "Our second quarter results reflect our ongoing emphasis on combining the company's more predictable revenues with sustained expense discipline to deliver consistently strong financial performance along with great value and service for our clients. Non-trading revenues set a new record at $1.0 billion, up 14% from a year ago, and our pre-tax profit margin and net income improved to 35.2% and $292 million, respectively. We also continue to emphasize rigorous capital management - second quarter capital expenditures were $43 million, and we repurchased $251 million of common stock during the period while developing our recently announced $3.5 billion capital restructuring plan."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business
 
 
Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services Business
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 6.9 million client brokerage accounts, 1.1 million corporate retirement plan participants, 177,000 banking accounts, and $1.4 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. CyberTrader, Inc. (member SIPC, ) is an electronic trading technology and brokerage firm providing services to highly active, online traders. More information is available at .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statement of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and CyberTrader, Inc. All periods have been adjusted to summarize the impact of CSC's sale of U.S. Trust Corporation in income from discontinued operations. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


