FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20070223162350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Appointment of President and Chief Operating Officer
On February 20, 2007, the Board of Directors of The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) appointed Walter W. Bettinger II as President and Chief Operating Officer of CSC. Mr. Bettinger, 46, has been Executive Vice President and President - Schwab Investor Services (formerly the Individual Investor Enterprise) of CSC and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab) since 2005. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer - Individual Investor Enterprise of CSC and Schwab from 2004 until 2005, Executive Vice President and President - Corporate Services of Schwab from 2002 until 2004, and Executive Vice President and President - Retirement Plan Services of Schwab from 2000 to 2002. Mr. Bettinger joined Schwab in 1995.
In connection with Mr. Bettinger's appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer, the independent directors of CSC approved compensation for Mr. Bettinger consisting of the following:
-         An annual base salary of $700,000;
-        A target bonus of 250% of his base salary for annual cash incentives under the Corporate Executive Bonus Plan (CEBP);
-        A special one-time cash payment of $1,400,000; and
-        A special one-time award of long-term compensation, consisting of 1,000,000 non-qualified stock options and 250,000 restricted shares.
The stock options vest 25% on each of the first, second, third, and fourth anniversary of the grant date, which was February 20, 2007, and have a term of seven years. The stock options have an exercise price of $19.56, which was the closing price of CSC's common stock on the date of grant. The restricted shares vest 25% on each of the second and third anniversary of the grant date and 50% on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
On February 21, 2007, CSC issued a press release announcing Mr. Bettinger's appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Approval of Performance Criteria Under the Corporate Executive Bonus Plan
On February 21, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of CSC approved performance criteria for 2007 under the CEBP. These performance criteria include revenue growth, pre-tax profit margins, and, in the case of U.S. Trust Corporation, net income. Certain executives who lead business units will be paid bonuses based on a combination of overall corporate performance and the performance of their business unit. Certain other executives will be paid bonuses based solely on overall corporate performance.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
99.1        Press Release dated February 21, 2007 ("The Charles Schwab Corporation Appoints Walter W. Bettinger II as President and COO")
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1 THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
Contacts:
News Release
SAN FRANCISCO, February 21, 2007
-The Charles Schwab Corporation (NASDAQ: SCHW) today announced the appointment of Walt Bettinger to President and Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately.
Bettinger, 46, is currently Executive Vice President and head of Schwab Investor Services, which provides a broad array of investment services for individuals and corporate clients. The Schwab Investor Services business serves more than 5.2 million accounts and $671 billion in client assets. In his new role as President and Chief Operating Officer, Bettinger will now oversee the company's operating businesses - Schwab Investor Services, Schwab Institutional and Schwab Corporate & Retirement Services - as well as mutual funds, banking, technology and operations. Bettinger will continue to report to Mr. Schwab, Chairman and CEO, as will the finance, corporate oversight, human resources and marketing functions.
"Walt and I have worked closely together at Schwab for more than 10 years, and we share a personal commitment to helping our clients achieve their financial goals, so it is gratifying to have him advance into this expanded leadership role," Mr. Schwab said. "Walt is an accomplished leader with a track record of success, and he has earned the Board's and my utmost confidence and respect. In his last 3 years in Schwab Investor Services, he led his team to tremendous improvements in both client service and financial performance, and he has positioned the business for continued growth
. I am counting on Walt to continue with the successful strategies we have initiated, while partnering closely with me on all our corporate initiatives going forward."
Mr. Bettinger said, "It is a great honor to be able to serve all of Schwab's clients, whether individual investors, registered investment advisors, or corporate benefit plan sponsors, and to help lead an organization like Schwab with its long-standing commitment to values, ethics and client focus. Our clients are looking to us to bring them the full range of our capabilities, and our opportunity to have a positive impact on people's lives has never been greater than it is today. My primary focus will be to work closely with our senior management team to further improve the client experience and enhance coordination among our various businesses as we continue growing."
Prior to assuming his current role in December 2005, Bettinger was Chief Operating Officer of the Individual Investor Enterprise. Previously, he served as President of Schwab Corporate Services, President of Schwab Retirement Plan Services, Inc. and as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Charles Schwab Trust Company.
Before joining Schwab, Bettinger founded The Hampton Company, a provider of retirement plan services to corporations and their employees, in 1983 at the age of 22. In 1995, The Charles Schwab Corporation acquired Hampton. Bettinger is a summa cum laude graduate of Ohio University with a degree in finance and investments. He has also completed the General Management program offered by the Harvard Business School.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 6.8 million client brokerage accounts, 570,000 corporate retirement plan participants, 149,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets as of January 31, 2007. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. The Charles Schwab Bank, N.A. (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com


