FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20081015142746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2008, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its income from continuing operations was $304 million for the third quarter of 2008, down 6% from the record third quarter of 2007. For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, the company's income from continuing operations was $922 million, up 13% from the year-earlier period.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2008
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "Investors are experiencing market conditions that are as difficult as I have seen in my career and that test anyone's resolve and confidence. Schwab's focus has remained right where it belongs  helping our clients navigate through this storm. Our operating discipline and the contributions of thousands of dedicated employees over these months have helped us maintain that focus and perform exceedingly well. We remain dedicated to the principles of safety and soundness, as they form the heart of our strong client relationships."
 
 
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "Our continued success in building client relationships helped third quarter net interest and trading revenues rise by 3% and 16%, respectively, while limiting the decline in asset management and administration fees to just 2%. The diverse revenue mix inherent in our business model and our ongoing expense discipline helped us keep overall revenues within 3% of last year's results while achieving a 39.9% pre-tax profit margin and a 31% return on equity."
Mr. Martinetto added, "We achieved these results in the face of a 20%-plus decline in equity market valuations over the past year. We also faced revenue headwinds this quarter due to the recognition of $73 million in pre-tax charges relating to losses on two corporate debt securities that were affected by market turmoil. In addition, last year's third quarter included the gain on the sale of U.S. Trust, as well as a one-time lift in interest revenue from investing the
proceeds. Regardless of the year-over-year comparisons, our third quarter 2008 performance represented outstanding results in an extraordinary environment, and we retain a flexible, all-weather balance sheet with over $4 billion of stockholders' equity, multiple sources of liquidity and strong credit ratings."
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "For many clients, today's market environment presents unprecedented challenges, and Schwab's ability to help them manage their investments has never been more important. During the extremely volatile month of September, our clients made heavy use of all of our service channels - branch, phone and internet  and their trading activity resulted in 5 of the 10 highest volume days in our history. Solid retail and advisor client activity helped drive total net new assets to $24 billion during the third quarter, even after modest net outflows in our corporate Mutual Fund Clearing Business due to planned transfers and investor redemptions. Total client assets ended September 2008 at $1.3 trillion, down 9% from last September. Active brokerage accounts and retirement plan participants at quarter-end were up 5% and 14%, respectively, over year-earlier levels, and we now serve 399,000 banking accounts. All of our businesses remain well positioned to serve their clients  including individuals, independent advisors and company retirement plans  during these tough times."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (SIS)
 
Schwab Institutional Business (SI)
 
 
Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services Business (SCRS)
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q3_2008_schedule.xls
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.3 million client brokerage accounts, 1.3 million corporate retirement plan participants, 399,000 banking accounts, and $1.3 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at
www.schwab.com.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Prior period amounts are presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation, which was sold on July 1, 2007. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


