FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20080415151154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 15, 2008, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its income from continuing operations (which excludes U.S. Trust) was $305 million for the first quarter of 2008, up 29% from the first quarter of 2007.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 15, 2008
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab commented, "In the face of a tough economic environment, our clients have remained actively engaged with us in managing their investments. Net new assets totaled $41.3 billion for the first quarter, 5% higher than the prior period and one of our strongest quarters ever. These flows helped total client assets end the first quarter at $1.4 trillion, up 7% from March 2007. Clients opened 246,000 new brokerage accounts during the quarter, up 27% from a year ago and the highest total in almost seven years. In addition, at month-end March we were serving 318,000 banking accounts and 1.3 million retirement plan participants, both new records and up 111% and 16%, respectively, from a year ago."
CFO Joe Martinetto noted, "Short term interest rates and equity market valuations declined during the first quarter, which put pressure on both net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. Our continued success in attracting and retaining client assets, however, along with sustained expense discipline, helped offset some of these headwinds and we achieved 13% year-over-year revenue growth, a 39% pre-tax profit margin, and a 37% increase in earnings per share from continuing operations. Our focus on rigorous capital management also continueswe repurchased a total of $350 million in common stock during the first quarter, and achieved a 33% ROE for the period."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (SIS)
 
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business (SI)
 
 
Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services Business (SCRS)
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.2 million client brokerage accounts, 1.3 million corporate retirement plan participants, 318,000 banking accounts, and $1.4 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Prior period amounts are presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation, which was sold on July 1, 2007. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


