FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20080716155421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 16, 2008, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its income from continuing operations (which excludes U.S. Trust) was $313 million for the second quarter of 2008, up 22% from the second quarter of 2007. For the six months ended June 30, 2008, the company's income from continuing operations was $618 million, up 26% from the first half of 2007.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 16, 2008
 
Chairman and CEO Charles Schwab said, "I'm very pleased with how our business model continued to deliver great service and consistent financial results in the second quarter. Clients brought $26 billion in net new assets to the company and total client assets ended June at $1.4 trillion, up 1% from June 2007. Active brokerage accounts and retirement plan participants were up 5% and 13% over the year-earlier levels, and banking accounts more than doubled to 355,000. Even in a tough market environment, our business showed standout growth and profitability."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "With strong asset inflows from clients during the second quarter, we achieved 9% year-over-year growth in net revenue despite headwinds from lower short term interest rates and flat to down equity markets. Our ongoing financial discipline helped limit overall expense growth to just 2% and fueled a 39.3% pre-tax profit margin, a 35% increase in earnings per share from continuing operations, and a 32% return on equity. Our financial discipline is also reflected in a strong balance sheet that includes a high-quality loan portfolio  mortgage delinquencies at Schwab Bank were 0.33% of outstanding balances as of month-end June, a fraction of the national average, and loan charge-offs totaled just $0.8 million for the quarter."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Schwab Investor Services Business (SIS)
 
 
Schwab Institutional Business (SI)
 
 
Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services Business (SCRS)
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q2_2008_schedule.xls
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.3 million client brokerage accounts, 1.3 million corporate retirement plan participants, 355,000 banking accounts, and $1.4 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Schwab Institutional division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Prior period amounts are presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation, which was sold on July 1, 2007. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 


