FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20090716141738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 16, 2009, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $205 million for the second quarter of 2009, down 31% from the second quarter of 2008. The company's second quarter results include $40 million in pre-tax charges relating to its previously announced expense reduction measures and a $16 million FDIC special industry assessment. For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the company's net income was $423 million, down 30% from the year-earlier period.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 16, 2009
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "Our long-term success comes from staying focused on our clients and their needs throughout market cycles. Right now, we have an opportunity to both strengthen existing relationships and attract new clients by offering great value across our range of products and services, and providing the perspectives and guidance investors need to move forward in such a tough environment. Making the most of this opportunity means continuing to invest in our clients while maintaining the solid financial performance expected from Schwab as a stable, sound institution. The company's second quarter results reflect our ongoing success in striking that balance."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "Clients remained actively engaged with us during the second quarter. As a result, we added $17 billion in net new assets and 197,000 new brokerage accounts, and experienced year-over-year growth in banking accounts and retirement plan participants of 67% and 16%, respectively. As we enter the second half of 2009, the economic and market outlook remains challenging. There have been some positive signs, such as the gains in the broad equity indices during the second quarter, which provided our clients with the first market-driven improvement in their account balances since the third quarter of 2007. At the same time, those indices still ended the quarter 20 to 30% below their year-earlier levels, and government monetary policy continues to keep short-term interest rates at unprecedented, near-zero levels. Since both of these factors have a significant influence on the company's revenues, we remain focused on disciplined financial management. We've already taken the steps necessary to ensure Schwab remains a lean and efficient organization in this environment, and our commitment to reduce 2009 expenses by 7 to 8% of the 2008 total is on track."
"Regardless of how the environment unfolds from here, our client focus is unwavering, and we are pursuing our long-term growth opportunities by sustaining critical investments in stronger and deeper client relationships," Mr. Bettinger added. "Recent examples of these investments include a new 2% cash back Visa credit card, a high yield savings account, reduced pricing across all of our proprietary equity index mutual funds, an improved options trading
platform, a new version of the Schwab.com website for our retail investors, and a series of investments supporting our valued independent advisor clients. We expect to continue investing with a long term view to support the strong client momentum we enjoy today."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "We bolstered our already strong balance sheet during the second quarter by raising $750 million of term debt at a favorable rate. This additional capital provides flexibility as we grow the company. Impairment losses on our investment portfolio remain contained, as we recognized $13 million in credit-related charges during the quarter. These losses remain centered in our holdings of Alt-A mortgage backed securities, which carried a total amortized cost of $709 million at quarter-end, down 7% from a year ago and representing less than 2% of current company cash and investments. Our portfolio of mortgages originated by Schwab Bank also continues to perform well, with delinquency, nonaccrual, and loss reserve ratios of 0.64%, 0.26% and 0.62% at month-end June, all far below national averages."
Mr. Martinetto continued, "Sustained client engagement led to an 18% year-over-year increase in trading revenues for the second quarter. With equity valuations still well below year-earlier levels and sequentially higher levels of money market fund fee waivers needed to provide at least a nominal return to clients, our asset management and administration fees declined by 21% from a year ago. In addition, with no change in the Fed Funds rate and other short term rates actually declining further, our net interest revenue fell by 29%, bringing the overall decline in revenues to 17%. We completed another significant step in our planned expense reduction measures during the quarter with the relocation of our headquarters to lower cost space in San Francisco, and related charges came in at $40 million, as expected. With the staffing reductions and other major components of our expense reduction effort now in place, we were able to absorb those charges and still reduce expenses by 6% overall, which in turn enabled the company to achieve a 31% pre-tax profit margin and a 18% return on equity."
Mr. Martinetto concluded, "We've been pointing out the effect of lower short term interest rates, credit spreads and asset valuations on the company's revenues for some time now, and the company's financial picture has continued to evolve as we would expect given the environment, with strong client metrics helping us to achieve a solid first half. It bears repeating that with the equity markets still so unsettled and no catalyst for higher rates on the horizon, revenue pressures, including increasing money fund fee waivers, may persist in the months ahead. At the same time, Schwab remains financially healthy and well positioned to deliver rapidly improving results in tandem with any recovery in the environment."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
Corporate and Retirement Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
[http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q2_2009_schedule.xls]
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to expense reductions, client-focused investments, revenue pressures and financial performance that reflect management's current expectations. Achievement of these expectations is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ongoing ability to identify, implement and sustain expense savings without disrupting its operations, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, including equity market valuations and the level of interest rates, changes in client utilization of money market mutual funds, and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.6 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 593,000 banking accounts, and $1.2 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 


