FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20090601083128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (the Company) is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K for the purpose of conforming certain of its historical segment information to reflect the combination of the Company's Schwab Institutional and Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services segments into a single business unit called Institutional Services. The Company's segments are as follows: Investor Services and Institutional Services. This segment change was made in the first quarter of 2009 in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, and reflects the manner in which the Company currently manages its business.
 
Additionally, the Company adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) on Emerging Task Force (EITF) Issue 03-6-1 (FSP EITF 03-6-1)  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities, on January 1, 2009. This FSP requires the inclusion of unvested share-based payments awards with non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as participating securities in the computation of earnings per share (EPS) under the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128  Earnings Per Share. This FSP requires retrospective adjustment to all prior-period EPS data presented. The Company does have participating securities in the form of unvested restricted common shares related to the Company's stock incentive plans. The adoption of this FSP did not change any of the previously reported EPS data in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, except for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 as shown in bold face in the following table.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K updates the following items in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 to reflect the segment change and the impact of FSP EITF 03-6-1 on EPS:
 
Form 10-K:
 
All updates to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K relate solely to the presentation of segment-specific disclosures on a basis consistent with the realigned segment reporting structure and the impact on FSP EITF 03-6-1 on EPS. These updates have no effect on the Company's previously reported results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. All other information in the Annual Report on Form 10-K remains unchanged and has not been otherwise updated for events occurring after December 31, 2008. The information in this Current Report on Form 8K should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (except for the items updated herein).
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is deemed incorporated by reference into the Company's registration statements filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of our report dated February 24, 2009, except for the last paragraph of Note 2, Note 19, and Note 21, as to which the date is May 27, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of The Charles Schwab Corporation and the effectiveness of The Charles Schwab Corporation's internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Filed on Form S-3:
 
 
Filed on Form S-4:
 
 
Filed on Form S-8:
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
General Corporate Overview
The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC), headquartered in San Francisco, California, was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company, and primarily located in San Francisco except as indicated), in securities brokerage, banking, and related financial services. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $1.137 trillion in client assets, 7.4 million active brokerage accounts
(a)
, 1.4 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 447,000 banking accounts. Significant subsidiaries of CSC include: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), which was incorporated in 1971, is a securities broker-dealer with 306 domestic branch offices in 45 states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K., and serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC's subsidiaries; Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which commenced operations in 2003, is a federal savings bank located in Reno, Nevada; and Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM) is the investment advisor for Schwab's proprietary mutual funds, which are referred to as the Schwab Funds.
The Company provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments  Investor Services (formerly called Schwab Investor Services) and Institutional Services. As a result of organizational and related business changes in the first quarter of 2009, the segments formerly reported as Advisor Services (formerly called Schwab Institutional) and Corporate and Retirement Services (formerly called Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services) have been combined into a single segment called Institutional Services. Previously reported segment information has been revised to reflect this change. The Investor Services segment includes the Company's retail brokerage and banking operations. The Institutional Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors (IAs), as well as retirement plan services for employers and employees and support services for plan administrators. For financial information by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2008, see "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  21. Segment Information."
As of December 31, 2008, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of about 13,400 full-time employees.
Acquisition and Divestitures
On July 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of U.S. Trust Corporation (USTC, and with its subsidiaries collectively referred to as U.S. Trust). U.S. Trust was a subsidiary that provided wealth management services. U.S. Trust is presented as a discontinued operation for all periods prior to the completion of the sale. All other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
On March 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of The 401(k) Company, which offers retirement plan services. The acquisition enhanced the Company's ability to meet the needs of retirement plans of all sizes. The acquisition also provided the opportunity to capture rollover accounts from individuals participating in retirement plans served by The 401(k) Company and to cross-sell the Company's other investment and banking services to plan participants.
In 2004, the Company sold its capital markets business, consisting of partnership interests of Schwab Capital Markets L.P. and all of the outstanding capital stock of SoundView Technology Group, Inc. (collectively referred to as Schwab Soundview Capital Markets, or SSCM).
Business Strategy and Competitive Environment
The Company's purpose is to help everyone become financially fit. The Company's strategy is to meet the financial services needs of individual investors both directly and indirectly through its two segments. The Company provides clients with a compelling combination of personalized relationships, superior service, and great value, delivered through a blend of people
 
 
 
and technology. People provide the client focus and personal touch that are essential in serving investors, while technology helps create services that are scalable and consistent. This combination helps the Company address a wide range of client needs  from tools and information for self-directed or active investors, to advice services, to retirement and equity-based incentive plans, to support services for independent IAs  while enabling each client to easily utilize some or all of these capabilities according to each client's unique circumstances.
The Company's competition in serving individual investors includes a wide range of brokerage, wealth management, asset management firms, banks, and trust companies. In serving these investors and competing for a growing percentage of the investable wealth in the U.S., the Company offers a multi-channel service delivery model which includes branch, telephonic, and online capabilities. Under this model, the Company can offer personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business with the Company. Schwab's branches and regional telephone service centers are staffed with trained and experienced financial consultants (FCs) focused on building and sustaining client relationships. The Company offers the ability to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. In particular, management believes that the Company's ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an integrated, individually tailored solution  ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or an IA  is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented offerings of other firms.
The Company's online and telephonic channels provide quick and efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, as clients trade more actively, they can use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities  including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists and integrated product offerings.
Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of the Company's bundled offering of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with the extensive array of investment, banking, and lending products and services described in the following section.
In the IA arena, the Company competes with institutional custodians, traditional and discount brokers, banks, and trust companies. Management believes that its Institutional Services segment can maintain its market leadership position primarily through the efforts of its expanded sales and support teams, which are dedicated to helping IAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, Institutional Services competes by utilizing technology to provide IAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients' assets easily and efficiently. Institutional Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help IAs identify and implement better ways to grow and manage their practices efficiently.
Another important aspect of the Company's ability to compete is its ongoing focus on efficiency and productivity, as lower costs give the Company greater flexibility in its approach to pricing and investing for growth. Management believes that this flexibility remains important in light of the current competitive environment, in which a number of competitors offer reduced online trading commission rates and account fees, as well as lower expense ratios on certain classes of mutual funds. Additionally, the Company's nationwide marketing effort is an important competitive tool because it reinforces the attributes of the Schwab brand.
Products and Services
The Company offers a broad range of products to address individuals' varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include:
 
 
 
 
 
These products, and the Company's full array of investing services, are made available through its two segments  Investor Services and Institutional Services.
Investor Services
Through the Investor Services segment, the Company provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. Most clients with assets totaling $250,000 or more at Schwab have a specific FC designated as their primary point of contact for utilizing Schwab's services.
The Company offers research, analytic tools, performance reports, market analysis, and educational material to all clients. Clients looking for more guidance have access to online portfolio planning tools, as well as professional advice from Schwab's portfolio consultants who can help develop an investment strategy and carry out investment and portfolio management decisions.
Schwab strives to demystify investing by educating and assisting clients in the development of investment plans. Educational tools include workshops, interactive courses, and online information about investing. Additionally, Schwab provides various internet-based research and analysis tools which are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings is a quantitative model-based stock rating system which provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Stocks are rated based on specific factors relating to fundamentals, valuation, momentum, and risk and ranked so that the number of buy consideration' ratings  As and Bs  equals the number of sell consideration' ratings  Ds and Fs.
Clients may need specific investment recommendations either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. The Company seeks to provide clients seeking advice with customized solutions. The Company's approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab's delivery channels.
Schwab Private Client features a personal advice relationship with a designated FC, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution.
For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, the Company offers several alternatives. The Company provides investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in mutual funds through the Schwab Managed Portfolio program. The Company also refers investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. In addition, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to IAs in the Schwab Advisor Network. These IAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions.
The Company strives to deliver information, education, technology, service, and pricing which meet the specific needs of clients who trade actively. Schwab offers integrated Web- and software-based trading platforms, which incorporate intelligent order routing technology, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management tools, decision support tools, and dedicated personal support.
The Company serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. The Company has a physical presence in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. In the U.S., the Company serves Chinese-, Korean-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices and Web-based and telephonic services.
 
 
Institutional Services
Through the Institutional Services segment, Schwab provides custodial, trading, technology, practice management, trust asset, and other support services to IAs. To attract and serve IAs, Institutional Services has a dedicated sales force and service teams assigned to meet their needs.
IAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information, as well as trading capabilities. The Institutional Services website is the core platform for IAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including submitting client account information and retrieving news and market information. This platform provides IAs with a comprehensive suite of electronic and paper-based reporting capabilities. Institutional Services offers online cashiering services, as well as internet-based eDocuments sites for both IAs and their clients that provide multi-year archiving of online statements, trade confirms and tax reports, along with document search capabilities.
To help IAs grow and manage their practices, Institutional Services offers a variety of services, including marketing and business development, business strategy and planning, and transition support. Regulatory compliance consulting and support services are available, as well as website design and development capabilities. Institutional Services maintains a website that provides interactive tools, educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishing their own independent practices.
Institutional Services offers an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package. This includes access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors and omissions insurance, and company benefits.
The Company offers a variety of educational materials and events to IAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. Institutional Services updates and shares market research on an ongoing basis, and it holds a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to IAs, including business strategies and best practices. The Company sponsors the annual IMPACT conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, IAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights.
IAs and their clients have access to a broad range of the Company's products and services, including managed accounts and cash products.
The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan services, plan administrator services, stock plan services, and mutual fund clearing services, and supports the availability of Schwab proprietary mutual funds on third-party platforms. The Company serves all aspects of employer sponsored plans: equity compensation, defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, and other investment related benefits plans.
The Company's bundled 401(k) retirement plan product offers plan sponsors a wide array of investment options, trustee services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Plan design features which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. Services such as Roth 401(k) and designated brokerage accounts are also offered. The Company provides a robust suite of tools to plan sponsors to manage their plans including plan-specific reports, studies and research, access to legislative updates and benchmarking reports that provide perspective of their plan's features compared with overall industry and segment-specific plans. Participants in bundled 401(k) plans receive targeted education materials, have access to electronic tools and resources, may attend onsite and virtual seminars, and can receive customized advice provided by a third party.
Participants in 401(k) plans administered by Institutional Services have access to personalized advice online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations specific to the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. Advice services include the automatic rebalancing of participant accounts to maintain proper asset allocations.
 
 
The Company's equity compensation product offers plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans: stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan.
Through Plan Administrator Services, the Company and third-party administrators work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with the Company's investment, technology, participant education and trustee services.
Schwab also offers its proprietary mutual funds on third party retirement platforms, allowing plan sponsors outside of the Company's bundled platform access to the Schwab Managed Retirement Trust Fund family. These target-date retirement collective trusts have independent sub-managers and leverage both active and passive management, which offer institutional structure and pricing.
Regulation
CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC's depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. CSC and Schwab Bank are both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to specific statutory capital requirements. However, CSC is required to maintain capital that is sufficient to support the holding company and its subsidiaries' business activities, and the risks inherent in those activities.
Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and supervision and to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements govern transactions with CSC and its non-depository institution subsidiaries, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases, dividends, and investments. The federal banking agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Schwab Bank is required to maintain a capital level that at least equals minimum capital levels specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels will result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank.
The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Schwab and 401(k) Investment Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of The 401(k) Companies, Inc.) are registered as broker-dealers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Schwab and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, Schwab is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the futures and commodities trading activities it conducts as an introducing broker.
Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (SROs), namely the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). Schwab is a member of the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Chicago Board Options Exchange and is consequently subject to their rules and regulations. The primary regulators of Schwab and 401(k) Investment Services, Inc. are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The CFTC has designated the National Futures Association (NFA) as Schwab's primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. The Company's business is also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which the Company operates.
The principal purpose of regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and the securities markets. The regulations to which broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.
 
 
As registered broker-dealers, Schwab and 401(k) Investment Services, Inc. are subject to SEC Rule 15c3-1 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer, it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab failed to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure would constitute a default by CSC under certain debt covenants.
The Uniform Net Capital Rule limits broker-dealers' ability to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit Schwab's operations and its ability to repay subordinated debt to CSC, which in turn could limit CSC's ability to repay debt, pay cash dividends, and purchase shares of its outstanding stock.
Sources of Net Revenues
The Company's major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based investment management and advisory services. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as cash, short- and long-term investments, and mortgage and margin loans) and interest paid on funding sources (including deposits in banking and brokerage accounts, short-term borrowings, and long-term debt). The Company generates trading revenues through commissions earned for executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenues from trading activity in fixed income securities.
For revenue information by source for the three years ended December 31, 2008, see "Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations  Net Revenues."
Available Information
The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's Internet website is .
www.sec.gov
On the Company's Internet website, , the Company posts the following recent filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: the Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company's current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings are available free of charge either on the Company's website or by request via email (), telephone (415-636-2787), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 101 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, CA 94104).
www.aboutschwab.com
investor.relations@schwab.com
 
 
Selected Financial and Operating Data
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted)
 
 
Note: All information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is presented on a continuing basis unless otherwise noted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
OVERVIEW
Management of the Company focuses on several key financial and non-financial metrics in evaluating the Company's financial position and operating performance. All information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 are shown in the following table:
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based investment management and advisory services. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources. Asset management and administration fees and net interest revenue are impacted by securities valuations, interest rates, the Company's ability to attract new clients, and client activity levels. The Company generates trading revenues through commissions earned for executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenues from trading activity in fixed income securities. Trading revenues are impacted by trading volumes, the volatility of equity prices in the securities markets and commission rates.
2008 Compared to 2007
2008 was marked by extraordinary market conditions, including continued downward pressure on home prices, tighter credit markets, liquidity concerns, significant volatility and sharp declines in the equity markets, and continued slowing of general economic activity. The Nasdaq Composite Index, Standard and Poor's 500 Index, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average decreased during the year by 41%, 38%, and 34%, respectively, with a significant portion of these decreases occurring in the fourth quarter. In addition, the federal funds rate decreased during the year by 4.25% to a range of zero to 0.25% at December 31, 2008.
Even with this unprecedented market environment, clients remained actively engaged with the Company in managing their investments and made heavy use of all of the Company's service channels  branch, phone, and internet. Net new client assets totaled $113.4 billion for the year, down 29% from a year ago, reflecting continued deterioration in the equity markets and lower asset valuations. Total client assets were $1.137 trillion at December 31, 2008, down 21% from December 31, 2007. Additionally, clients' daily average trades increased 22% to 346,600 in 2008 from 2007.
Net revenues grew by 3% in 2008 from the prior year primarily due to an increase in trading revenue partially offset by a decrease in other revenue. Trading revenue increased in 2008 primarily due to higher trading volume as a result of significant volatility in the equity markets during the year. The decrease in other revenue in 2008 related to losses of $75 million on investments in the Company's securities available for sale portfolio. Asset management and administration fees remained relatively flat in 2008 reflecting the Company's ability to attract and retain clients. Net interest revenue increased by 1% in 2008 due to higher levels of interest-earning assets offset by the impact of a decrease in the average net yield earned on these assets. Although expenses excluding interest remained relatively flat in 2008, compensation and benefits expense decreased reflecting lower incentive compensation, while other expense and occupancy and equipment expense increased. The loss from discontinued operations of $18 million in 2008 relates to the adjustment to finalize the income tax gain related to the sale of U.S. Trust. As a result of the Company's sustained expense discipline in 2008, the Company achieved a pre-tax profit margin from continuing operations of 39.4% and return on stockholders' equity of 31% in 2008. Return on stockholders' equity in 2007 included a $1.2 billion after-tax gain on the sale of U.S. Trust, as well as incremental interest revenue generated from temporarily investing the proceeds from the sale. Net revenue per average full-time equivalent employee was $383,000 in 2008, down 1% from 2007 as net revenue growth was lower than the increase in average full-time equivalent employees.
2007 Compared to 2006
Overall equity market returns for 2007 showed gains for the three major indices  the Nasdaq Composite Index increased by 10%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 6%, and the Standard and Poor's 500 Index increased 4%.
 
 
Net new client assets totaled $160.2 billion for 2007, up 92% from 2006, which included $23.0 billion related to the acquisition of The 401(k) Company in 2007. Total client assets were $1.446 trillion at December 31, 2007, up 17% from December 31, 2006. Clients' daily average trades increased 6% to 284,900 in 2007 from 2006.
Net revenues grew by 16% in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in asset management and administration fees driven by growth in client assets, as well as an increase in net interest revenue due to higher interest rate spreads. Expenses excluding interest increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to higher compensation and benefits expense, advertising and market development expense, and professional services expense. The Company's pre-tax profit margin from continuing operations was 37.1% in 2007 as compared to 34.3% in 2006 due to revenue growth and disciplined expense management during the year. Return on stockholders' equity increased to 55% in 2007 as compared to 26% in 2006, reflecting the sale of U.S. Trust, earnings growth, and the Company's active management of its capital base. Net revenue per average full-time equivalent employee was $387,000 in 2007, up 7% from 2006 due to revenue growth partially offset by the increase in average full-time equivalent employees as a result of the acquisition of The 401(k) Company.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current presentation. All references to EPS information in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reflect diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
CURRENT MARKET ENVIRONMENT
The adverse market conditions in 2008 discussed above continue to negatively impact the Company's revenues.
The Company earns mutual fund service fees and asset management fees based upon daily balances of certain client assets. Fluctuations in these client asset balances caused by changes in equity valuations directly impact the amount of fee revenue earned by the Company. Continued depressed equity valuations in 2009 will negatively impact asset management and administration fees on a year-over-year basis. Additionally, mutual fund service fees may be further reduced if the current interest rate environment persists. To the extent certain money market mutual funds replace maturing securities with lower yielding securities and the overall yield on such funds falls to a level at or below the management fees on those funds, the Company may waive a portion of its fee in order to continue providing some return to clients.
With the recent decline in interest rates, the Company's revenue from interest-earning assets such as securities held and loans to clients has been declining more than the rates that the Company pays on funding sources such as customer deposits. The Company's ability to reduce those rates has been limited as short term rates have approached zero. If the current interest rate environment persists through 2009, it will negatively impact net interest revenue on a year-over-year basis.
The level at which clients utilize margin loans will also impact net interest revenue. While the average balance of margin loans was $10.3 billion for all of 2008, by month-end December the balance had declined to $6.2 billion.
The Company recorded pre-tax losses of $75 million related to two corporate debt securities in its securities available for sale portfolio in 2008. Certain securities available for sale experienced deteriorating credit characteristics in 2008. Further deterioration in the performance of these securities, including non-agency mortgage-backed securities, could result in the recognition of future impairment charges.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion presents an analysis of the Company's results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.
 
 
Net Revenues
The Company's major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. Asset management and administration fees were relatively flat, while net interest revenue and trading revenue increased in 2008 as compared to 2007. Asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue increased in 2007 as compared to 2006.
 
 
Asset Management and Administration Fees
Asset management and administration fees include mutual fund service fees and fees for other asset-based financial services provided to individual and institutional clients. The Company earns mutual fund service fees for transfer agent services, shareholder services, administration, and investment management provided to its proprietary funds, and recordkeeping and shareholder services provided to third-party funds. These fees are based upon the daily balances of client assets invested in third-party funds and the Company's proprietary funds. The Company also earns asset management fees for advisory and managed account services, which are based on the daily balances of client assets subject to the specific fee for service. The fair values of client assets, which include proprietary and third-party mutual funds, are based on quoted market prices and other observable market data. Asset management and administration fees may vary with changes in the balances of client assets due to market fluctuations and levels of net new client assets. For discussion of the impact of current market conditions on asset management and administration fees, see "Current Market Environment".
Asset management and administration fees remained relatively flat in 2008 from 2007, primarily due to lower third-party mutual fund and advisory service fees, partially offset by higher proprietary fund fees. Mutual Fund OneSource service fees decreased by $77 million, or 12%, in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to a 39% decline in Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource asset balances. The Company's proprietary mutual fund service fees increased $98 million, or 8%, in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to a 15% increase in money market mutual fund asset balances. Investment management and trust fees decreased by $38 million, or 10%, in 2008 from 2007 due to lower balances of client assets participating in advisory and managed account services programs.
Asset management and administration fees increased by $413 million, or 21%, in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher mutual fund, advisory, and managed account asset balances. Mutual fund service fees increased $329 million, or 21% in 2007
 
 
from 2006 primarily due to a 26% rise in the Company's proprietary mutual fund asset balances and an 11% increase in asset balances in Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource service. Investment management and trust fees increased by $68 million, or 22%, in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher balances of client assets participating in advisory and managed account services programs.
Net Interest Revenue
Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources. Net interest revenue is affected by changes in the volume and mix of these assets and liabilities, as well as by fluctuations in interest rates and portfolio management strategies. The Company is positioned so that the consolidated balance sheet produces an increase in net interest revenue when interest rates rise and, conversely, a decrease in net interest revenue when interest rates fall (i.e., interest-earning assets generally reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities). In the event of falling interest rates, the Company might attempt to mitigate some of this negative impact by extending the maturities of assets in investment portfolios to lock-in asset yields as well as by lowering rates paid to clients on interest-bearing liabilities. Since the Company establishes the rates paid on certain brokerage client cash balances and deposits from banking clients, as well as the rates charged on receivables from brokerage clients, and also controls the composition of its investment securities, it has some ability to manage its net interest spread. However, the spread is influenced by external factors such as the interest rate environment and competition. For discussion of the impact of current market conditions on net interest revenue, see "Current Market Environment".
In clearing its clients' trades, Schwab holds cash balances payable to clients. In most cases, Schwab pays its clients interest on cash balances awaiting investment, and may invest these funds and earn interest revenue. Receivables from brokerage clients consist primarily of margin loans to brokerage clients. Margin loans are loans made by Schwab to clients on a secured basis to purchase securities. Pursuant to SEC regulations, client cash balances that are not used for margin lending are generally segregated into investment accounts that are maintained for the exclusive benefit of clients.
When investing segregated client cash balances, Schwab must adhere to SEC regulations that restrict investments to securities guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, participation certificates, mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association, certificates of deposit issued by U.S. banks and thrifts, and resale agreements collateralized by qualified securities. Additionally, Schwab has established policies for the minimum credit quality and maximum maturity of these investments. Schwab Bank also maintains investment portfolios for liquidity as well as to invest funding from deposits raised in excess of loans to banking clients. Schwab Bank's securities available for sale include mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities, and U.S. agency notes. Schwab Bank's securities held to maturity include asset-backed securities. Schwab Bank lends funds to banking clients primarily in the form of mortgage loans. These loans are largely funded by interest-bearing deposits from banking clients.
The Company's interest-earning assets are financed primarily by brokerage client cash balances and deposits from banking clients. Other funding sources include noninterest-bearing brokerage client cash balances and proceeds from stock-lending activities, as well as stockholders' equity.
The amount of excess cash held in certain Schwab brokerage client accounts that is swept into money market deposit accounts at Schwab Bank and (through May 2007) at U.S. Trust has increased significantly since the program's inception in 2003. Average interest-bearing banking deposits increased $7.2 billion, or 59%, to $19.2 billion in 2008 from 2007, and $2.9 billion, or 32%, to $12.0 billion in 2007 from 2006. As a result, the average securities available for sale balances increased $4.4 billion, or 60%, to $11.8 billion in 2008 from 2007, and $1.2 billion, or 20%, to $7.3 billion in 2007 from 2006, while the average balance of loans to banking clients increased $2.0 billion, or 73%, to $4.8 billion in 2008 from 2007, and $629 million, or 29%, to $2.8 billion in 2007 from 2006.
 
 
The following table presents net interest revenue information corresponding to interest-earning assets and funding sources on the consolidated balance sheet:
 
 
The increases in net interest revenue in the last two years were primarily due to higher average interest-earning assets, including increases in securities available for sale, and loans to banking clients, partially offset by higher average balances on deposits from banking clients. In addition, the increase in net interest revenue in 2008 was also partially offset by a decrease in receivables from brokerage clients, as well as generally lower yields on interest-earning assets. Net interest revenue in 2007 included incremental interest revenue generated from temporarily investing the proceeds from the sale of U.S. Trust. Consistent with declines in general market interest rates prevalent in 2008, the Company experienced declines in the yields of all interest-earning assets during 2008 as compared to 2007 and 2006. Accordingly, the average interest rates on deposits from banking clients and payables to brokerage clients also decreased during 2008 compared to 2007 and 2006. The decline in the average interest rate on long-term debt was due to the additional debt issued at lower interest rates as part of the Company's capital restructuring in 2007.
The excess cash held in certain Schwab brokerage client accounts was previously swept into a money market deposit account at U.S. Trust. In May 2007, Schwab terminated this arrangement and moved all of these balances to a similar existing arrangement with Schwab Bank. The interest expense related to these client deposit balances maintained at U.S. Trust is included in interest expense from continuing operations on the Company's consolidated statements of income for 2007 and 2006. The interest expense was $4 million and $11 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The corresponding interest revenue on the invested cash balances related to these deposits is included in interest revenue from continuing operations on the Company's consolidated statements of income for 2007 and 2006. The interest revenue was $14 million and $38 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The interest revenue amount was calculated using the Company's funds transfer pricing methodology.
Certain interest-bearing assets and liabilities of U.S. Trust retained by the Company in 2007 and 2006:
Trading Revenue
Trading revenue includes commission and principal transaction revenues. Commission revenues are affected by the number of revenue trades executed and the average revenue earned per revenue trade. Principal transaction revenues are primarily
 
 
comprised of revenues from client fixed income securities trading activity. Factors that influence principal transaction revenues include the volume of client trades, market price volatility, and competitive pressures.
Trading revenue increased by $220 million, or 26%, in 2008 from 2007 and $75 million, or 10%, in 2007 from 2006 due to higher daily average revenue trades and higher average revenue earned per revenue trade.
As shown in the following table, daily average revenue trades executed by the Company increased 19% in 2008. The increase in daily average revenue trades was due to higher volumes of equity, mutual fund, option, and principal transaction trades. Average revenue earned per revenue trade increased 4% in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher average revenue earned per revenue trade for fixed income securities, partially offset by lower average revenue earned per revenue trade for option securities. Average revenue earned per revenue trade increased 4% in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to a higher proportion of equity trading volume outside the Company's active investor programs.
 
 
Other Revenue
Other revenue includes realized gains and losses on sales of securities available for sale, service fees, and software maintenance fees. Other revenue decreased by $79 million, or 61%, in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to losses of $75 million related to two corporate debt securities in the Company's securities available for sale portfolio in 2008. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (Lehman) filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and on September 25, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) seized Washington Mutual Bank. As a result of these events, the Company sold these debt securities in 2008.
Expenses Excluding Interest
As shown in the table below, expenses excluding interest were relatively flat in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by increases in other expense and occupancy and equipment expense. Expenses excluding interest increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to higher compensation and benefits expense, advertising and market development expense, and professional services expense.
 
 
 
Compensation and Benefits
Compensation and benefits expense includes salaries and wages, incentive compensation, and related employee benefits and taxes. Incentive compensation is based on the achievement of specified performance objectives, including revenue growth, profit margin, and EPS, and therefore will fluctuate with these measures.
Compensation and benefits expense decreased by $114 million, or 6%, in 2008 from 2007 due to decreases in incentive compensation and employee benefits and other expense, offset by an increase in salaries and wages. Compensation and benefits expense increased by $162 million, or 10%, in 2007 from 2006 due to increases in salaries and wages, incentive compensation, and employee benefits and other expense. The following table shows a comparison of certain compensation and benefits components and employee data:
 
 
Salaries and wages increased in 2008 from 2007 due to higher severance expense. Incentive compensation decreased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to lower long-term incentive plan compensation, discretionary bonus costs, and variable compensation. Discretionary bonus costs and variable compensation decreased in 2008 from 2007 based on actual performance in 2008. Long-term incentive plan compensation decreased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to the maturity of certain plan units that matured in 2007. Employee benefits and other expense decreased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to a decrease in deferred compensation.
Salaries and wages and employee benefit and other expense increased in 2007 from 2006 due to an increase in full-time employees. Incentive compensation increased in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to the increased cost of performance-based incentive plans as a result of the Company's improved financial results in 2007 and stock-based compensation.
Expenses Excluding Compensation and Benefits
Occupancy and equipment expense increased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to increases in data processing equipment and maintenance expense of $12 million and occupancy expense of $5 million. Advertising and market development expense increased in 2008 from 2007 due to an increase in media spending related to the Company's "Talk to Chuck" national advertising campaign. Communications expense increased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to higher levels of postage and printing costs of $8 million. Other expense increased in 2008 from 2007 primarily due to charges of $29 million for individual client complaints and arbitration claims relating to Schwab YieldPlus Fund investments.
 
 
Professional services expense increased in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to higher levels of fees paid to outsourced service providers and consultants. Occupancy and equipment expense increased in 2007 from 2006 due to increases in data processing equipment and maintenance expense of $17 million and occupancy expense of $5 million. Advertising and market development expense increased in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to the Company's media and marketing spending related to its "Talk to Chuck" national advertising campaign. Communications expense increased in 2007 from 2006 due to higher levels of postage and printing costs of $15 million and news and quotes services of $5 million. Other expense increased in 2007 from 2006 primarily due to increases in regulatory fees of $7 million, bank service charges of $7 million, and charitable contributions of $4 million.
Taxes on Income
The Company's effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations was 39.3% in 2008 and 39.6% in both 2007 and 2006.
Segment Information
The Company provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments  Investor Services (formerly called Schwab Investor Services) and Institutional Services. As a result of organizational and related business changes in the first quarter of 2009, the segments formerly reported as Advisor Services (formerly called Schwab Institutional) and Corporate and Retirement Services (formerly called Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services) have been combined into a single segment called Institutional Services. Previously reported segment information has been revised to reflect this change. The Investor Services segment includes the Company's retail brokerage and banking operations. The Institutional Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors, as well as retirement plan services, plan administrator services, stock plan services, and mutual fund clearing services. In addition, the Institutional Services segment supports the availability of Schwab proprietary mutual funds on third-party platforms. The Company evaluates the performance of its segments on a pre-tax basis excluding items such as restructuring charges, impairment charges on non-financial assets, discontinued operations, and extraordinary items. Segment assets and liabilities are not disclosed because the balances are not used for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to segments.
Financial information for the Company's reportable segments is presented in the following table:
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
Investor Services
Net revenues increased in 2008 by $33 million, or 1%, from 2007 primarily due to increases in trading revenue and net interest revenue, partially offset by the decrease in other revenue. Trading revenue increased due to higher daily average revenue trades. Net interest revenue increased due to higher levels of interest-earning assets, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the average net yield earned on these assets. The decrease in other revenue was primarily due to losses on investments in the Company's securities available for sale portfolio. Expenses excluding interest were relatively flat in 2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of lower incentive compensation expense, offset by a charge for individual client complaints and arbitration claims related to Schwab YieldPlus Fund investments in 2008.
Net revenues increased in 2007 by $412 million, or 14%, from 2006 due to increases in net interest revenue and asset management and administration fees. Net interest revenue increased due to higher levels of market interest rates and changes in the composition of interest-earning assets, including increases in securities available for sale and loans to banking clients. Asset management and administration fees increased as a result of higher balances of client assets in the Company's proprietary mutual funds and Mutual Fund OneSource service, as well as balances participating in advisory and managed account service programs. Expenses excluding interest increased in 2007 by $133 million, or 7%, from 2006 primarily due to higher client servicing and other related expenses, as well as higher market development expense.
Institutional Services
Net revenues increased in 2008 by $127 million, or 8%, from 2007 due to increases in trading revenue and asset management and administration fees, offset by the decrease in net interest revenue. Trading revenue increased due to higher daily average revenue trades. Asset management and administration fees increased as a result of higher balances of client assets in the Company's proprietary funds. Net interest revenue decreased due to the impact of a decrease in the average net yield earned on interest-earning assets. Expenses excluding interest were relatively flat in 2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of lower incentive compensation expense offset by increased costs to service additional corporate retirement plan participants resulting from the acquisition of the 401(k) Company.
Net revenues increased in 2007 by $288 million, or 22%, from 2006 due to increases in asset management and administration fees and net interest revenue, as well as the acquisition of the 401(k) Company in March 2007. Asset management and administration fees increased as a result of higher balances of client assets in the Company's proprietary mutual funds and Mutual Fund OneSource service, as well as balances participating in managed account service programs. Net interest revenue increased due to higher levels of market interest rates and changes in the composition of interest-earning assets, including increases in securities available for sale. Expenses excluding interest increased in 2007 by $176 million, or 21%, from 2006 primarily due to costs to service additional corporate retirement plan participants as a result of the acquisition of the 401(k) Company, as well as higher business development, marketing and account servicing related expenses and increased infrastructure investment.
Capital Restructuring
In 2007, CSC completed a capital restructuring that returned approximately $3.3 billion in capital to stockholders to create a more efficient and cost-effective capital structure. The capital restructuring included the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinued Operations
On July 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of all of the outstanding common stock of U.S. Trust for $3.3 billion in cash. CSC recognized a gain on the sale of $1.9 billion, or $1.2 billion after tax, in third quarter of 2007. In connection with the determination of the final income tax gain on the sale of U.S. Trust, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $18 million in the second quarter of 2008. U.S. Trust is presented as a discontinued operation for all periods prior to the completion of the sale.
Business Acquisition
On March 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of The 401(k) Company, which offers retirement plan services, for $115 million in cash. As a result of a purchase price allocation, the Company recorded goodwill of $106 million and intangible assets of $8 million. The intangible assets are being amortized over 16 years.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
CSC conducts substantially all of its business through its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The capital structure among CSC and its subsidiaries is designed to provide each entity with capital and liquidity to meet its operational needs and regulatory requirements.
CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC's depository institution, is a federal savings bank. CSC and Schwab Bank are both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision.
Liquidity
CSC
As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to specific statutory capital requirements. However, CSC is required to maintain capital that is sufficient to support the holding company and its subsidiaries' business activities, and the risks inherent in those activities. To manage capital adequacy, CSC currently utilizes a target Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, as defined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, of at least 6%. At December 31, 2008, CSC's Tier 1 Leverage Ratio was 8.6%.
CSC's liquidity needs are generally met through cash generated by its subsidiaries, as well as cash provided by external financing. CSC maintains excess liquidity in the form of overnight cash deposits to cover daily funding needs and to support growth in the Company's business. Generally, CSC does not hold liquidity at its subsidiaries in excess of amounts deemed sufficient to support the subsidiaries' operations, including any regulatory capital requirements. Schwab and Schwab Bank are subject to regulatory requirements that may restrict them from certain transactions with CSC. Management believes that funds generated by the operations of CSC's subsidiaries will continue to be the primary funding source in meeting CSC's liquidity needs, providing adequate liquidity to meet Schwab Bank's capital guidelines, and maintaining Schwab's net capital.
CSC has liquidity needs that arise from its Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A (Medium-Term Notes), and junior subordinated notes, as well as from the funding of cash dividends, acquisitions, and other investments. The Medium-Term Notes, of which $458 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008, have maturities ranging from 2009 to 2017 and fixed
 
 
interest rates ranging from 6.375% to 8.05% with interest payable semiannually. The Medium-Term Notes are rated A2 by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), A by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group (S&P), and A by Fitch IBCA, Inc. (Fitch). At December 31, 2008, $300 million of junior subordinated notes were outstanding and have a fixed interest rate of 7.50% until 2017 and a floating rate thereafter. The junior subordinated notes are not rated, however the trust preferred securities related to these notes are rated A3 by Moody's, BBB+ by S&P, and A- by Fitch. For further discussion of the issuance of the junior subordinated notes, see "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  12. Borrowings."
CSC has a universal automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC which enables CSC to issue debt, equity and other securities. This registration statement was filed in December 2008. CSC's prior shelf registration statement/prospectus supplement for issuing Medium-Term Notes and universal shelf registration statement both expired in November 2008.
CSC has authorization from its Board of Directors to issue unsecured commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) not to exceed $1.5 billion. Management has set a current limit for the commercial paper program of $800 million. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes may vary, but are not to exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The commercial paper is not redeemable prior to maturity and is not subject to voluntary prepayment. The proceeds of the commercial paper program are to be used for general corporate purposes. CSC commenced issuing Commercial Paper Notes in April 2008. Average borrowings for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $40 million. There were no Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at December 31, 2008. CSC's ratings for these short-term borrowings are P-1 by Moody's, A-1 by S&P, and F1 by Fitch.
CSC maintains an $800 million committed, unsecured credit facility with a group of fourteen banks which is scheduled to expire in June 2009. CSC plans to establish a similar facility to replace this one when it expires. This facility was unused in 2008. Any issuances under CSC's commercial paper program will reduce the amount available under this facility. The funds under this facility are available for general corporate purposes, including repayment of the Commercial Paper Notes discussed above. The financial covenants under this facility require Schwab to maintain a minimum net capital ratio, as defined, Schwab Bank to be well capitalized, as defined, and CSC to maintain a minimum level of stockholders' equity. At December 31, 2008, the minimum level of stockholders' equity required under this facility was $2.6 billion. Management believes that these restrictions will not have a material effect on its ability to meet foreseeable dividend or funding requirements.
CSC also has direct access to $1.0 billion of the $1.1 billion uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines discussed below, that are primarily utilized by Schwab to manage short-term liquidity. The amount available to CSC under these lines is lower than the amount available to Schwab because the credit line provided by one of these banks is only available to Schwab. These lines were not used by CSC in 2008.
In addition, Schwab provides CSC with a $1.0 billion credit facility maturing in 2009. No funds were drawn under this facility at December 31, 2008.
Schwab
Schwab is subject to regulatory requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. These regulations prohibit Schwab from repaying subordinated borrowings to CSC, paying cash dividends, or making unsecured advances or loans to its parent or employees if such payment would result in net capital of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000. At December 31, 2008, Schwab's net capital was $1.2 billion (16% of aggregate debit balances), which was $1.1 billion in excess of its minimum required net capital and $840 million in excess of 5% of aggregate debit balances.
Most of Schwab's assets are readily convertible to cash, consisting primarily of short-term (i.e., less than 150 days) investment-grade, interest-earning investments (the majority of which are segregated for the exclusive benefit of clients pursuant to regulatory requirements), receivables from brokerage clients, and receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. Client margin loans are demand loan obligations secured by readily marketable securities. Receivables from and payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations primarily represent current open transactions, which usually settle, or can be closed out, within a few business days.
 
 
Liquidity needs relating to client trading and margin borrowing activities are met primarily through cash balances in brokerage client accounts, which were $19.2 billion, $19.5 billion, and $19.9 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Management believes that brokerage client cash balances and operating earnings will continue to be the primary sources of liquidity for Schwab in the future.
The Company has a finance lease obligation related to an office building and land under a 20-year lease. The remaining finance lease obligation of $116 million at December 31, 2008 is being reduced by a portion of the lease payments over the remaining lease term of approximately 16 years.
To manage short-term liquidity, Schwab maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group of six banks totaling $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008. The need for short-term borrowings arises primarily from timing differences between cash flow requirements, scheduled liquidation of interest-bearing investments, and movements of cash to meet segregation requirements. Schwab used such borrowings for eighteen days in 2008, with daily amounts borrowed averaging $117 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines at December 31, 2008.
To satisfy the margin requirement of client option transactions with the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), Schwab has unsecured standby letter of credit (LOCs) agreements with seven banks in favor of the OCC aggregating $550 million at December 31, 2008. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to provide collateral to certain brokerage clients. Schwab satisfies the collateral requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $100 million. No funds were drawn under any of these LOCs during 2008.
To manage Schwab's regulatory capital requirement, CSC provides Schwab with a $1.4 billion subordinated revolving credit facility which is scheduled to expire in March 2010. The amount outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2008 was $220 million. Borrowings under this subordinated lending arrangement qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab.
In addition, CSC provides Schwab with a $1.5 billion credit facility which is scheduled to expire in 2011. Borrowings under this facility do not qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab. At December 31, 2008, $153 million was outstanding under this facility, which was subsequently repaid on January 2, 2009.
Schwab Bank
Schwab Bank is required to maintain a capital level that at least equals minimum capital levels specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels will result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct effect on Schwab Bank. Based on its regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2008, Schwab Bank is considered well capitalized. Schwab Bank's regulatory capital and ratios are as follows:
 
 
N/A Not applicable.
Schwab Bank's current liquidity needs are generally met through deposits from banking clients and equity capital.
The excess cash held in certain Schwab brokerage client accounts is swept into a money market deposit account at Schwab Bank. At December 31, 2008, these balances totaled $18.4 billion.
 
 
Additionally, Schwab Bank has access to traditional funding sources such as deposits, federal funds purchased, and repurchase agreements. Schwab Bank has access to short-term funding through the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) discount window. Amounts available under the FRB discount window are dependent on the amount of Schwab Bank's mortgage-backed securities available for sale that are pledged as collateral. At December 31, 2008, $187 million was available under this arrangement. There were no funds drawn under this arrangement during 2008.
Schwab Bank maintains a credit facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank System (FHLB). Amounts available under this facility are dependent on the amount of Schwab Bank's home equity lines of credit that are pledged as collateral. At December 31, 2008, $415 million was available under this facility. There were no funds drawn under this facility during 2008.
CSC provides Schwab Bank with a $100 million short-term credit facility which is scheduled to expire in December 2009. Borrowings under this facility do not qualify as regulatory capital for Schwab Bank. No funds were drawn under this facility during 2008.
Capital Resources
The Company monitors both the relative composition and absolute level of its capital structure. Management is focused on limiting the Company's use of capital and currently targets a long-term debt to total financial capital ratio of less than 30%. The Company's total financial capital (long-term debt plus stockholders' equity) at December 31, 2008 was $4.9 billion, up $313 million, or 7%, from December 31, 2007.
At December 31, 2008, the Company had long-term debt of $883 million, or 18% of total financial capital, that bears interest at a weighted-average rate of 7.03%. At December 31, 2007, the Company had long-term debt of $899 million, or 19% of total financial capital. The Company repaid $20 million and $43 million of long-term debt in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The Company's cash position (reported as cash and cash equivalents on the Company's consolidated balance sheet) and cash flows are affected by changes in brokerage client cash balances and the associated amounts required to be segregated under regulatory guidelines. Timing differences between cash and investments actually segregated on a given date and the amount required to be segregated for that date may arise in the ordinary course of business and are addressed by the Company in accordance with applicable regulations. Other factors which affect the Company's cash position and cash flows include investment activity in securities, levels of capital expenditures, acquisition and divestiture activity, banking client deposit activity, brokerage and banking client loan activity, financing activity in long-term debt, payments of dividends, and repurchases of CSC's common stock. The combination of these factors can cause significant fluctuations in the levels of cash and cash equivalents during specific time periods.
Capital Expenditures
The Company's capital expenditures were $196 million in 2008 and $168 million in 2007. Capital expenditures as a percentage of net revenues were 4% and 3% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2008 included software and equipment relating to the Company's information technology systems, buildings, and leasehold improvements. Capital expenditures in 2007 were primarily for software and equipment relating to the Company's information technology systems. Capital expenditures include capitalized costs for developing internal-use software of $46 million in 2008 and $57 million in 2007.
Management currently anticipates that 2009 capital expenditures will be approximately 25% lower than 2008 spending, primarily due to decreased spending on software relating to the Company's information technology systems, as well as decreased spending on buildings. As has been the case in recent years, the Company may adjust its capital expenditures from period to period as business conditions change. Management believes that funds generated by its operations will continue to be the primary funding source of its capital expenditures.
 
 
Dividends
CSC paid common stock cash dividends of $253 million in 2008. CSC paid common stock cash dividends of $1.5 billion in 2007, which included a special cash dividend of $1.2 billion. Since the initial dividend in 1989, CSC has paid 79 consecutive quarterly dividends and has increased the quarterly dividend 19 times, including a 20% increase in the third quarter of 2008. Since 1989, dividends have increased by a 28% compounded annual growth rate, excluding the special cash dividend of $1.00 per common share in 2007. CSC paid common stock dividends of $.220, $1.200, and $.135 per share in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. While the payment and amount of dividends are at the discretion of the Board, subject to certain regulatory and other restrictions, the Company currently targets its cash dividend at approximately 20% to 30% of net income.
Share Repurchases
CSC repurchased 17 million shares of its common stock for $350 million in 2008. CSC repurchased 135 million shares of its common stock, including shares repurchased under the tender offer and the Stock Purchase Agreement described below for $2.7 billion in 2007. As of December 31, 2008, CSC had remaining authority from the Board of Directors to repurchase up to $596 million of its common stock.
On July 31, 2007, CSC completed a share repurchase through a tender offer. CSC accepted for purchase 84 million shares of its common stock at a price of $20.50 per share, for a total purchase price of $1.7 billion. Pursuant to the tender offer rules, CSC was prohibited from making open market repurchases of its common stock during the tender offer period and until August 15, 2007.
Under the Stock Purchase Agreement executed on July 2, 2007 with Chairman and former CEO Charles R. Schwab, CSC's largest stockholder, and with certain additional stockholders whose shares Mr. Schwab is deemed to beneficially own, CSC purchased 18 million shares at a price of $20.50 per share for a total of $369 million on August 15, 2007.
Acquisition and Divestiture
On July 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of U.S. Trust and received proceeds of $3.3 billion. On March 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of The 401(k) Company for $115 million in cash.
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements
The Company enters into various off-balance-sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business, primarily to meet the needs of its clients. These arrangements include firm commitments to extend credit. Additionally, the Company enters into guarantees and other similar arrangements as part of transactions in the ordinary course of business. For information on each of these arrangements, see "Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities."
 
 
Contractual Obligations
A summary of the Company's principal contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008, is shown in the following table. Excluded from this table are liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet that are generally short-term in nature (e.g., drafts payable) or without contractual payment terms (e.g., deposits from banking clients, payables to brokerage clients, and deferred compensation). Management believes that funds generated by its continuing operations, as well as cash provided by external financing, will continue to be the primary funding sources in meeting these obligations.
 
 
 
 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
Overview
The Company's business activities expose it to a variety of risks including technology and operations risk, credit, market and liquidity risks, and legal and reputational risk. Identification and management of these risks are essential to the success and financial soundness of the Company.
Senior management takes an active role in the Company's risk management process and has developed policies and procedures under which specific business and control units are responsible for identifying, measuring, and controlling various risks. Oversight of risk management has been delegated to the Global Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major business and control functions. The Global Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Company's risk exposures, and leading the continued development of the Company's risk management policies and practices.
Functional risk sub-committees focusing on specific areas of risk report into the Global Risk Committee. These sub-committees include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Global Risk Committee reports regularly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee), which reviews major risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures.
The Company's Disclosure Committee is responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company's (a) disclosure controls and procedures and (b) internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Disclosure Committee reports on this evaluation to the CEO and CFO prior to their certification required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
Additionally, the Company's compliance, finance, internal audit, legal, and risk and credit management departments assist management and the various risk committees in evaluating, testing, and monitoring the Company's risk management.
Risk is inherent in the Company's business. Consequently, despite the Company's efforts to identify areas of risk, oversee operational areas involving risk, and implement policies and procedures designed to manage risk, there can be no assurance that the Company will not suffer unexpected losses due to operating or other risks. The following discussion highlights the Company's policies and procedures for identification, assessment, and management of the principal areas of risk in its operations.
Technology and Operating Risk
Technology and operating risk is the potential for loss due to deficiencies in control processes or technology systems that constrain the Company's ability to gather, process and communicate information and process client transactions efficiently and securely, without interruptions. The Company's operations are highly dependent on the integrity of its technology systems and the Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to make timely enhancements and additions to its technology in anticipation of evolving client needs. To the extent the Company experiences system interruptions, errors or downtime (which could result from a variety of causes, including changes in client use patterns, technological failure, changes to its systems, linkages with third-party systems, and power failures), the Company's business and operations could be significantly negatively impacted. Additionally, rapid increases in client demand may strain the Company's ability to enhance its technology and expand its operating capacity. To minimize business interruptions, Schwab has two data centers intended, in part, to further improve the recovery of business processing in the event of an emergency. The Company is committed to an ongoing process of upgrading, enhancing, and testing its technology systems. This effort is focused on meeting client needs, meeting market and regulatory changes, and deploying standardized technology platforms.
Technology and operating risk also includes the risk of human error, employee misconduct, external fraud, computer viruses, terrorist attack, and natural disaster. Employee misconduct could include fraud and misappropriation of client or Company assets, improper use or disclosure of confidential client or Company information, and unauthorized activities, such as transactions exceeding acceptable risks or authorized limits. External fraud includes misappropriation of client or Company assets by third parties, including through unauthorized access to Company systems and data and client accounts. The frequency and sophistication of such fraud attempts continue to increase.
The Company has specific policies and procedures to identify and manage operational risk, and uses periodic risk self-assessments and internal audit reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of these internal controls. The Company maintains backup and recovery functions, including facilities for backup and communications, and conducts periodic testing of disaster recovery plans. The Company also maintains policies and procedures and technology to protect against fraud and unauthorized access to systems and data.
 
 
Despite the Company's risk management efforts, it is not always possible to deter or prevent technological or operational failure, or fraud or other misconduct, and the precautions taken by the Company may not be effective in all cases. The Company may be subject to litigation, losses, and regulatory actions in such cases, and may be required to expend significant additional resources to remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures.
The Company also faces technology and operating risk when it employs the services of various external vendors, including domestic and international outsourcing of certain technology, processing, and support functions. The Company manages its exposure to such outsourcing risks through contractual provisions, control standards, and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance. The Company maintains policies and procedures regarding the standard of care expected with Company data, whether the data is internal company information, employee information, or non-public client information. The Company clearly defines for employees, contractors, and vendors the Company's expected standards of care for confidential data. Regular training is provided by the Company in regard to data security.
The Company is actively engaged in the research and development of new technologies, services, and products. The Company endeavors to protect its research and development efforts, and its brands, through the use of copyrights, patents, trade secrets, and contracts.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the potential for loss due to a client or counterparty failing to perform its contractual obligations, or the value of collateral held to secure obligations proving to be inadequate. The Company's direct exposure to credit risk mainly results from margin lending activities, securities lending activities, mortgage lending activities, its role as a counterparty in financial contracts and investing activities, and indirectly from the investing activities of certain of the proprietary funds that the Company sponsors. To manage the risks of such losses, the Company has established policies and procedures which include: establishing and reviewing credit limits, monitoring of credit limits and quality of counterparties, and adjusting margin requirements for certain securities. In addition, most of the Company's credit extensions, such as margin loans to clients, securities lending agreements, and resale agreements, are supported by collateral arrangements. These arrangements are subject to requirements to provide additional collateral in the event that market fluctuations result in declines in the value of collateral received.
The Company's credit exposure related to loans to banking clients is actively managed through individual and portfolio reviews performed by management. Management regularly reviews asset quality including concentrations, delinquencies, non-performing loans, losses, and recoveries. All are factors in the determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses, which is reviewed quarterly by senior management.
The Company's loan portfolios primarily include first lien 3-, 5- and 7-year adjustable rate mortgage loans (First Mortgage portfolio) of $3.2 billion and home equity lines of credit (HELOC portfolio) of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company does not offer loans that allow for negative amortization. The Company maintains credit underwriting standards that have limited the exposure to the types of loans that experienced high foreclosures and loss rates elsewhere in the industry during 2008. The Company does not originate or purchase subprime loans (generally defined as extensions of credit to borrowers with a Fair Isaac & Company (FICO) credit score of less than 620 at origination), unless the borrower has compensating credit factors. At December 31, 2008, approximately 1% of both the First Mortgage and HELOC portfolios consisted of loans to borrowers with FICO credit scores of less than 620.
 
 
The following table presents certain of the Company's loan quality metrics as a percentage of total outstanding loans:
 
 
The Company has exposure to credit risk associated with its securities available for sale portfolio, which totaled $14.4 billion at December 31, 2008. This portfolio includes U.S. agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities, long term certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and U.S. agency notes. U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities do not have explicit credit ratings, however management considers these to be of the highest credit quality and rating given the guarantee of principal and interest by the U.S. agencies. Included in non-agency mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by loans that are considered to be "Prime" (defined by the Company as loans to borrowers with a FICO credit score of 620 or higher at origination), and "Alt-A" (defined by the Company as Prime loans with reduced documentation at origination).
The table below presents the credit ratings for U.S. agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, including prime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securities by year of origination. In some instances securities have divergent ratings from Moody's, Fitch Ratings or Standard and Poor's. In these instances the Company has used the lowest rating as of December 31, 2008 for purposes of presenting the table below. Mortgage-backed securities, particularly Alt-A securities, experienced deteriorating credit characteristics, including increased delinquencies, and valuation pressure in 2008. For a discussion of the impact of current market conditions on mortgage-backed securities available for sale, see "Current Market Environment".
 
At December 31, 2008, the corporate debt securities and non-mortgage asset-backed securities were rated investment grade (defined as a rating equivalent to a Moody's rating of "Baa" or higher, or a Standard and Poor's rating of "BBB-" or higher).
 
 
Schwab performs clearing services for all securities transactions in its client accounts. Schwab has exposure to credit risk due to its obligation to settle transactions with clearing corporations, mutual funds, and other financial institutions even if Schwab's client or a counterparty fails to meet its obligations to Schwab.
Concentration Risk
The Company is subject to concentration risk when holding large positions of financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry.
The Company's investments in mortgage-backed securities totaled $10.4 billion at December 31, 2008. Of these, $8.2 billion were U.S. agency securities and $2.2 billion were non-agency securities. Included in non-agency mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by Alt-A loans. At December 31, 2008, the amortized cost and fair value of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities were $798 million and $429 million, respectively.
The Company's investments in corporate debt securities and commercial paper totaled $3.5 billion at December 31, 2008, with the majority issued by institutions in the financial services industry. Included in corporate debt securities and commercial paper at December 31, 2008, were $2.6 billion of securities issued by financial institutions and guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. These corporate debt securities and commercial paper are included in securities available for sale and cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's loans to banking clients includes $3.2 billion of first lien residential real estate mortgage loans at December 31, 2008. Approximately 80% of these mortgages consisted of loans with interest-only payment terms. The interest rates on approximately 80% of these interest-only loans are not scheduled to reset for three or more years. All interest-only loans are underwritten based on underwriting standards that do not include interest terms described as temporary introductory rates below current market rates. At December 31, 2008, 33% of the residential real estate mortgages and 46% of the home equity lines of credit balances were secured by properties which are located in California. The Company is also subject to concentration risk from its margin and securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or industry.
The Company is subject to indirect exposure to U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral to secure its resale agreements. The Company's primary credit exposure on these resale transactions is with its counterparty. The Company would have exposure to the U.S. Government and agency securities only in the event of the counterparty's default on the resale agreements. U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral for resale agreements, at December 31, 2008, totaled $6.8 billion.
Market Risk
Market risk is the potential for changes in revenue or the value of financial instruments held by the Company as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices or market conditions. For discussion of the Company's market risk, see "Item 7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."
Fiduciary Risk
Fiduciary risk is the potential for financial or reputational loss through breach of fiduciary duties to a client. Fiduciary activities include, but are not limited to, individual and institutional trust, investment management, custody, and cash and securities processing. The Company attempts to manage this risk by establishing procedures to ensure that obligations to clients are discharged faithfully and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Business units have the primary responsibility for adherence to the procedures applicable to their business. Guidance and control are provided through the creation, approval, and ongoing review of applicable policies by business units and various fiduciary risk committees.
 
 
Legal and Regulatory Risk
The Company faces significant legal and compliance risk in its business, and the volume of litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms and the amount of damages claimed have been increasing. Among other things, these risks relate to the suitability of client investments, conflicts of interest, disclosure obligations and performance expectations for Company products and services, supervision of employees, and the adequacy of the Company's controls. Claims against the Company may increase due to a variety of factors, such as if clients suffer losses during a period of deteriorating equity market conditions, as the Company increases the level of advice it provides to clients, and as the Company enhances the services it provides to IAs. In addition, the Company and its affiliates are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities, and SROs, and such regulation is becoming increasingly extensive and complex.
The Company attempts to manage legal and compliance risk through policies and procedures reasonably designed to avoid litigation claims and prevent or detect violations of applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These procedures address issues such as business conduct and ethics, sales and trading practices, marketing and communications, extension of credit, client funds and securities, books and records, anti-money laundering, client privacy, employment policies, and contracts management. Despite the Company's efforts to maintain an effective compliance program and internal controls, legal breaches and rule violations could result in reputational harm, significant losses and disciplinary sanctions, including limitations on the Company's business activities.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company uses fair value measurements to record certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157  Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), and to determine fair value disclosures. At December 31, 2008, 42% of total assets ($21.9 billion) were recorded at fair value. All of these assets were measured at fair value using quoted prices or market-based information and accordingly were classified as Level 1 or Level 2 measurements in accordance with SFAS No. 157. Liabilities recorded at fair value were not material at December 31, 2008. See note "15  Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities" for more information on the Company's assets and liabilities accounted for at fair value.
The Company uses prices obtained from an independent third-party pricing service to measure the fair value of certain investment securities. The Company validates prices received from the pricing service using various methods including, comparison to prices received from additional pricing services, comparison to available quoted market prices, internal valuation models, and review of other relevant market data including implied yields of major categories of securities. The Company does not adjust the prices received from the independent third-party pricing service unless such prices are inconsistent with SFAS No. 157 and result in a material difference in the recorded amounts. At December 31, 2008, the Company did not adjust prices received from the independent third-party pricing service. For certificates of deposits and treasury securities included in investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, the Company uses discounted cash-flow models to measure the fair value that utilize market-based inputs including observable market interest rates that correspond to the remaining maturities or next interest reset dates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. While the majority of the Company's revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are not based on estimates, there are certain accounting principles that require management to make estimates regarding matters that are uncertain and susceptible to change where such change may result in a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and reported financial results. These critical accounting estimates are described below. Management regularly reviews the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Company's financial statements for reasonableness and adequacy.
 
 
: Management evaluates securities available for sale and securities held to maturity for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. For debt securities, other-than-temporary impairment exists if management determines it is probable that the Company will not collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. Other-than-temporary impairment also exists if management no longer has the ability or intent to hold a security with an unrealized loss for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. If management determines other-than temporary impairment exists, the cost basis of the security is adjusted to the then-current fair value, with a corresponding loss recognized in current earnings. If future evaluations conclude that an impairment now considered to be temporary is other-than-temporary, the Company would recognize a realized loss through earnings at that time.
Other-than-Temporary Impairment of Securities Available for Sale and Securities Held to Maturity
The evaluation of whether other-than-temporary impairment exists is a matter of judgment. The evaluation includes the assessment of several factors including: 1) whether the unrealized loss is solely due to changes in interest rates, 2) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost, 3) the financial condition of the issuer, if applicable, 4) the credit ratings of the issuer or security, 5) the credit characteristics of the collateral underlying the security, including the credit default experience, delinquency rates, cumulative losses to date and the ratio of credit enhancement available under the terms of the security to expected losses for non-agency mortgage-backed securities, and 6) the Company's intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Additionally, management utilizes cash flow models for securities that exhibit deteriorating credit characteristics to estimate the expected cash flow from the securities in order to assess whether it is probable that the Company will not collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. These cash flow models require management to estimate future principal prepayments, default rates, and default loss severities based on underlying collateral, and future housing price changes. Further deterioration of these characteristics could result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment.
: Under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually, or whenever indications of impairment exist. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, resulting in an impairment charge for this excess.
Valuation of Goodwill
The Company has elected April 1
st
as its annual goodwill impairment testing date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill on April 1, 2008, management estimated the fair value of each of the Company's reporting units (generally defined as the Company's businesses for which financial information is available and reviewed regularly by management) and compared this value to the carrying value of the reporting unit. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was greater than its carrying value, and therefore management concluded that no amount of goodwill was impaired. The estimated fair value of the reporting units was established using a discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions about the future operating results and cash flows of each reporting unit. Adverse changes in the Company's planned business operations such as unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, the sale of a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit, or other unforeseen developments could result in an impairment of the Company's recorded goodwill.
The Company regularly evaluates its portfolio of loans to banking clients and provides allowances for the portion management believes may be uncollectible. Several factors are taken into consideration in this evaluation including current economic conditions, the composition of the loan portfolio, past loss experience, and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. For Schwab Bank's portfolio, which primarily consists of mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit, a risk-based methodology is used to determine the allowance for credit losses. Loans are categorized into portfolios by loan type and risk characteristics. A probable loss rate, based on company and industry experience, is used to determine the credit allowance.
Allowance for Credit Losses:
: Reserves for legal and regulatory claims and proceedings reflect an estimate of probable losses for each matter, after considering, among other factors, the progress of the case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, available defenses, insurance coverage and indemnification, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. In many cases, including most class action lawsuits, it is not possible to determine whether a loss will be incurred, or to estimate the range of that loss, until the matter is close to resolution, in which case no accrual is made until that time. Reserves are
Legal Reserve
 
 
adjusted as more information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of resolving a matter may ultimately differ materially from the amount reserved.
The Company's management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee. Additionally, management has reviewed with the Audit Committee the Company's significant estimates discussed in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "estimate," "aim," "target," and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, which reflect management's beliefs, objectives, and expectations as of the date hereof, are necessarily estimates based on the best judgment of the Company's senior management. These statements relate to, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Achievement of the expressed beliefs, objectives and expectations described in these statements is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed beliefs, objectives, and expectations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of documents incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents.
Important factors that may cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain of these factors, as well as general risk factors affecting the Company, are discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Item 1A  Risk Factors."
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In Millions, Except Share and Per Share Amounts)
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In Millions)
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
(In Millions)
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) is a savings and loan holding company engaged, through its subsidiaries, in securities brokerage, banking, and related financial services. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab) is a securities broker-dealer with 306 domestic branch offices in 45 states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K. In addition, Schwab serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC's subsidiaries. Other subsidiaries include Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), a federal savings bank, and Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab's proprietary mutual funds, which are referred to as the Schwab Funds.
The consolidated financial statements include CSC and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company). All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), which require management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the accompanying financial statements. Certain estimates include other-than-temporary impairment of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity, the valuation of goodwill, the allowance for credit losses, and legal reserves. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2008 presentation.
On July 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of all of the outstanding stock of U.S. Trust Corporation (USTC, and with its subsidiaries collectively referred to as U.S. Trust). U.S. Trust was a subsidiary that provided wealth management services. U.S. Trust is presented as a discontinued operation for all periods prior to the completion of the sale. All other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
 
Asset management and administration fees, which include mutual fund service fees and fees for other asset-based financial services provided to individual and institutional clients, are recognized as revenue over the period that the related service is provided, based upon average net asset balances. The Company earns mutual fund service fees for transfer agent services, shareholder services, administration, and investment management provided to its proprietary funds, and recordkeeping and shareholder services provided to third-party funds. Mutual fund service fees are based upon the daily balances of client assets invested in third-party funds and the Company's proprietary funds. These daily asset balances are based upon quoted market prices and other observable market data. The Company also earns asset management fees for advisory and managed account services, which are based on the daily balances of client assets subject to the specific fee for service.
Asset management and administration fees:
Interest revenue represents interest earned on certain assets, which include cash and cash equivalents, cash and investments segregated, receivables from brokerage clients, securities available for sale, securities held to maturity, and loans to banking clients. Interest revenue is recognized in the period earned based upon average daily asset balances and respective interest rates.
Interest revenue:
: Trading revenue includes commission revenues and revenues from principal transactions. Clients' securities transactions are recorded on the date that they settle, while the related commission revenues and expenses are recorded on the date that the trade occurs. Principal transactions are recorded on a trade date basis.
Securities transactions
: The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are not segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include money market funds, deposits with banks, certificates of deposit, federal funds sold, commercial paper, and treasury securities. Cash and cash equivalents also include balances that Schwab Bank maintains at the Federal Reserve Bank.
Cash and cash equivalents
include securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale agreements) which are collateralized by U.S. Government and agency securities. Resale agreements are collateralized investing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. The Company obtains
Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
 
 
control of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned and accrued interest under resale agreements. Collateral is valued daily by the Company, with additional collateral obtained when necessary. Cash and investments segregated also include certificates of deposit and U.S. Treasury securities, as well as corporate debt securities and commercial paper guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Certificates of deposit, U.S. Treasury securities, corporate debt securities, and commercial paper are recorded at fair value.
include margin loans to clients and are stated net of allowance for doubtful accounts. Cash receivables from brokerage clients that remain unsecured or partially secured for more than 30 days are fully reserved.
Receivables from brokerage clients
include Schwab Funds money market funds, fixed income securities, equity and other securities, and equity and bond mutual funds recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices. Unrealized gains and losses are included in trading revenue.
Other securities owned
are recorded at fair value based on quoted prices for similar securities in active markets and other observable market data. Securities available for sale include U.S. agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities, asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, and U.S. agency notes. The Company evaluates these securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. If the Company determines other-than-temporary impairment exists, the cost basis of the security is adjusted to the then-current fair value, with a corresponding loss recognized in current earnings. Unrealized gains and losses are reported, net of taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses from sales of securities available for sale are determined on a specific identification basis and are included in other revenue.
Securities available for sale
are recorded at amortized cost based on the Company's positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. The Company evaluates these securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. If the Company determines other-than-temporary impairment exists, the cost basis of the security is adjusted to the then-current fair value, with a corresponding loss recognized in current earnings.
Securities held to maturity
: Securities borrowed require the Company to deliver cash to the lender in exchange for securities and are included in receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. For securities loaned, the Company receives collateral in the form of cash in an amount equal to the market value of securities loaned. Securities loaned are included in payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations. The Company monitors the market value of securities borrowed and loaned, with additional collateral obtained or refunded when necessary. Fees received or paid are recorded in interest revenue or interest expense.
Securities borrowed and securities loaned
are stated net of allowance for credit losses. The allowance is established through charges to income based on management's evaluation of the existing portfolio. The adequacy of the allowance is reviewed regularly by management, taking into consideration current economic conditions, the existing loan portfolio composition, past loss experience, and risks inherent in the portfolio, as more fully described below.
Loans to banking clients
The Company performs a quarterly analysis to estimate the allowance for credit losses. This process utilizes loan-level statistical models that estimate prepayments, defaults, and lifetime contractual losses for our loan portfolios based on predicted behavior of individual loans within the portfolios. The models consider effects of borrower behavior and a variety of factors including, but not limited to, interest rate fluctuations, housing price movements, current economic conditions, estimated defaults and foreclosures, delinquencies, the loan portfolio composition (including concentrations of credit risk), past loss experience, estimates of loss severity, and credit scores. The more significant variables within the models are interest rates and housing prices. Predicted housing price scenarios are primarily based on 20 years of historical prices at the metropolitan statistical area level. Interest rate projections are based on the current term structure of interest rates and historical volatilities to project various possible future interest rate paths. Other variables in the model, such as probability of default, are derived from historical data. This quarterly analysis results in a loss factor that is applied to the outstanding balances to determine the allowance for credit loss for each loan category.
 
 
Loans are placed on nonaccrual status upon becoming 90 days past due as to interest or principal (unless the loans are both well-secured and in the process of collection), or when the full timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued and unpaid interest receivable is reversed and the loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method thereafter, until qualifying for return to accrual status. Generally, a loan may be returned to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal become current in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement, or when the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection and collectability is no longer doubtful.
Nonaccrual loans:
consist of fixed-rate and adjustable-rate residential real estate mortgage loans intended for sale. Loans held for sale are stated at lower of cost or market value. Fair value is estimated using quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans.
Loans held for sale
: Equipment and office facilities are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset of three to ten years. Buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over forty years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. Software and certain costs incurred for purchasing or developing software for internal use are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of three or five years. Equipment, office facilities, and property are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, except for land, which is stated at cost. Equipment, office facilities, and property are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable.
Equipment, office facilities, and property
represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of the related net assets acquired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever indications of impairment exist. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, management estimates the fair value of each of the Company's reporting units (defined as the Company's businesses for which financial information is available and reviewed regularly by management), and compares it to their carrying value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, management is required to estimate the fair value of all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill is greater than the estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess. The Company has elected April 1
Goodwill
st
as its annual impairment testing date.
: The Company has non-amortizing intangible assets related to contracts acquired to manage investments of mutual funds that totaled $14 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Non-amortizing intangible assets are subject to impairment testing annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company has amortizing intangible assets, primarily related to purchased client accounts, that totaled $10 million at December 31, 2008. These intangible assets have finite lives and are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment testing whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. These amortizing intangible assets have a remaining weighted-average useful life of 12 years. All intangible assets are recorded in other assets.
Intangible assets
are recorded on the balance sheet in other assets and other liabilities at fair value. As part of its consolidated asset and liability management process, the Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements (Swaps) to effectively convert the interest rate characteristics of a portion of its Medium-Term Notes from fixed to variable. These Swaps have been designated as fair value hedges and therefore, changes in fair value of the Swaps are offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged Medium-Term Notes.
Derivative financial instruments
Schwab Bank's loans held for sale portfolio consists of fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages, which are subject to a loss in value when market interest rates rise. Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to manage this risk. These forward sale commitments have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments with respect to the loans held for sale. Accordingly, the fair values of these forward sale commitments are recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheet, with gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).
 
 
Additionally, Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to hedge interest rate lock commitments issued on mortgage loans that will be held for sale. Schwab Bank considers the fair value of these commitments to be zero at the commitment date, with subsequent changes in fair value determined solely based on changes in market interest rates. Any changes in fair value of the interest rate lock commitments are completely offset by changes in fair value of the related forward sale commitments.
: The Company provides for income taxes on all transactions that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109  Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109). Accordingly, deferred tax assets are adjusted to reflect the tax rates at which future taxable amounts will likely be settled or realized. The effects of tax rate changes on future deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, as well as other changes in income tax laws, are recorded in earnings in the period during which such changes are enacted. The Company records uncertain tax positions in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.
Income taxes
The Company measures and recognizes compensation expense based on estimated fair values for all share-based payment arrangements including employee and director stock option and restricted stock awards, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)  Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R).
Stock-based compensation:
Stock-based compensation expense is based on awards expected to vest and therefore is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant based on the Company's historical forfeiture experience and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Eligible officers received long-term incentive plan units under a long-term incentive plan (LTIP). These awards are restricted from transfer or sale and vest annually over a three- to four-year performance period. Each award provides for a one-time cash payment for an amount that varies based upon the Company's cumulative earnings per share (EPS) over the respective performance period of each grant. The Company accrues the estimated total cost for each grant on a straight-line basis over each LTIP's vesting period with periodic cumulative adjustments to expense as estimates of the total grant cost are revised. The last performance period on existing grants under this incentive plan ended on December 31, 2008.
Long-term incentive compensation:
SFAS No. 157  Fair Value Measurements was effective beginning January 1, 2008. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows, but expanded the disclosures in the Company's consolidated financial statements. See note "15  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities," for disclosures pursuant to SFAS No. 157.
New accounting standards:
SFAS No. 159  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities was effective beginning January 1, 2008. This statement permits entities to elect to measure eligible financial instruments, commitments, and certain other arrangements at fair value at specified election dates with changes in fair value recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting period. The Company made no such election on January 1, 2008, or during 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have any impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows.
SFAS No. 141R  Business Combinations was issued in December 2007. This statement generally requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, contingent purchase consideration, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, at fair value on the date of acquisition. SFAS No. 141R also requires an acquirer to expense most transaction and restructuring costs as incurred, and not include such items in the cost of the acquired entity. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R will not have an impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows, as SFAS No. 141R applies prospectively for all business acquisitions with an acquisition date on or after January 1, 2009. Early adoption is prohibited.
 
 
SFAS No. 160  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, was issued in December 2007 and is effective beginning January 1, 2009. This statement amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51  Consolidated Financial Statements by establishing financial statement presentation and disclosure requirements for reporting noncontrolling ownership interests. SFAS No. 160 also establishes consistent accounting methods for changes in ownership interest and for the valuation of retained noncontrolling investments upon deconsolidation. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows.
SFAS No. 161  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, was issued in March 2008 and is effective beginning January 1, 2009. This statement amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities by requiring qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair values and gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk related contingent features in derivative agreements. SFAS No. 161 does not require any new derivative or hedging measurements. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not impact the Company's financial position, results of operations, EPS, or cash flows, but will expand the disclosures in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
FASB Staff Position (FSP) on EITF Issue 03-6-1 (FSP EITF 03-6-1)  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities, was issued in June 2008 and is effective beginning January 1, 2009. The Company adopted this FSP on January 1, 2009. This FSP requires the inclusion of unvested share-based payment awards with non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as participating securities in the computation of EPS under the two-class method described in SFAS No. 128  Earnings per Share. This FSP requires retrospective adjustment to all prior-period EPS data presented. The Company does have participating securities in the form of unvested restricted common shares related to the Company's stock incentive plans. The adoption of this FSP did not change any of the previously reported EPS data, except for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 as shown in bold face in the following table.
 
 
Receivables from brokerage clients are stated net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4 million and $1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Receivables from brokerage clients consist primarily of margin loans to brokerage clients of $6.2 billion and $11.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Securities owned by brokerage clients are held as collateral for margin loans. Such collateral is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Charge-offs related to margin loans were not material in 2008, 2007 and 2006. The average yield earned on margin loans was 5.95% and 8.00% in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
 
A summary of other securities owned is as follows:
 
 
The Company's positions in Schwab Funds money market funds arise from certain overnight funding of clients' redemption, check-writing, and debit card activities. Fixed income, equity, and other securities include investments made by the Company relating to its deferred compensation plan and fixed income securities held to meet clients' trading activities. Equity and bond mutual funds include mutual fund investments held at CSC and inventory maintained to facilitate certain Schwab Funds and third-party mutual fund clients' transactions.
Securities sold, but not yet purchased of $2 million at December 31, 2008 and $6 million at December 31, 2007, consisted primarily of mutual fund shares that are distributed to clients to satisfy their dividend reinvestment requests. These securities are recorded at fair value in accrued expenses and other liabilities.
 
The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity are as follows:
 
 
 
There were no securities classified as held to maturity at December 31, 2007.
A summary of securities with unrealized losses, aggregated by category and period of continuous unrealized loss is as follows:
 
Management evaluates securities available for sale and securities held to maturity for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. For debt securities, other-than-temporary impairment exists if management determines it is probable that the Company will not collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. Other-than-temporary impairment also exists if management no longer has the ability or intent to hold a security with an unrealized loss for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. If management determines other-than-temporary impairment exists, the cost basis of the security is adjusted to the then-current fair value, with a corresponding loss recognized in current earnings. If future evaluations conclude that an impairment now considered to be temporary is other-than-temporary, the Company would recognize a realized loss through earnings at that time. Based on management's evaluation, no other-than-temporary impairment was indicated as of December 31, 2008.
The evaluation of whether other-than-temporary impairment exists is a matter of judgment. The evaluation includes the assessment of several factors including: 1) whether the unrealized loss is solely due to changes in interest rates, 2) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost, 3) the financial condition of the issuer, if applicable, 4) the credit ratings of the issuer or security, 5) the credit characteristics of collateral underlying the security, including the credit default experience, delinquency rates, cumulative losses to date and the ratio of credit enhancement available under the terms of the security to expected losses for non-agency mortgage-backed securities, and 6) the Company's intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Additionally, management utilizes cash flow models for securities that exhibit deteriorating credit characteristics to estimate the expected cash flow from the securities in order to assess whether it is probable that the Company will not collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. These cash flow models require management to estimate future principal prepayments, default rates, and default loss severities based on underlying collateral, and future housing price changes. Further deterioration of these characteristics could result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment.
 
 
Unrealized losses in securities available for sale were $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2008, and were concentrated in non-agency mortgage-backed securities. U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities do not have explicit credit ratings, however management considers these to be of the highest credit quality given the guarantee of principal and interest by the U.S. agencies. Included in non-agency mortgage-backed securities are securities collateralized by loans that are considered to be "Alt-A" (defined as loans with reduced documentation at origination). Although Alt-A mortgage-backed securities experienced deteriorating credit characteristics and valuation pressure in 2008, management determined that no other-than-temporary impairment existed at December 31, 2008 for these securities. At December 31, 2008, the amortized cost and fair value of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities were $798 million and $429 million, respectively.
Included in corporate debt securities were $876 million of securities issued by financial institutions and guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The Company recorded losses of $75 million related to two corporate debt securities in its securities available for sale portfolio in 2008. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (Lehman) filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and on September 25, 2008, the FDIC seized Washington Mutual Bank. As a result of these events, the Company sold these debt securities in 2008. These sales reflected significant unanticipated changes in the financial condition of their issuers and do not impact the Company's ability and intent to hold the remaining securities.
The maturities of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at December 31, 2008 are as follows:
 
 
The proceeds and gross realized gains (losses) from the sale of securities available for sale are as follows:
 
Realized gains and losses from sales of securities available for sale and other-than-temporary impairment charges are included in other revenue.
 
 
An analysis of the composition of the loan portfolio is as follows:
 
 
 
The components of other assets are as follows:
 
 
 
The aggregate principal amount of Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A (Medium-Term Notes) outstanding at December 31, 2008 had maturities ranging from 2009 to 2017. At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, the aggregate principal amount of Medium-Term Notes outstanding had fixed interest rates ranging from 6.375% to 8.05%. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Medium-Term Notes carried a weighted-average interest rate of 7.13% and 7.11%, respectively. A portion of the Medium-Term Notes are subject to fair value hedging instruments as described in note "14  Financial Instruments Subject to Off-Balance Sheet Risk, Credit Risk, or Market Risk."
In October 2007, CSC and Schwab Capital Trust I, a statutory trust formed under the laws of the State of Delaware (Trust), closed a public offering of $300 million of the Trust's fixed to floating rate trust preferred securities. The proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities were invested by the Trust in fixed to floating rate junior subordinated notes issued by CSC (Subordinated Debt). The Subordinated Debt has a fixed interest rate of 7.50% until November 15, 2017, and a floating rate thereafter. The Subordinated Debt may be redeemed at a redemption price of principal plus accrued but unpaid interest on November 15, 2017, on or after November 15, 2037, or following the occurrence of certain events, and at a make-whole redemption price at any other time. CSC has contractually agreed, pursuant to a replacement capital covenant, for the benefit of certain holders of the Company's long-term indebtedness ranking senior to the Subordinated Debt, not to redeem, repay or purchase the Subordinated Debt or the trust preferred securities prior to November 15, 2047, unless it has received proceeds of the issuance of certain replacement capital securities, among other conditions. At December 31, 2008, the Company's 6.375% Senior Medium-Term Notes due 2017 is the series of long-term indebtedness whose holders are entitled to the benefits of the replacement capital covenant.
In 2004, the Company sold an office building for proceeds of $136 million and leased the property back for a 20-year term. This transaction was accounted for as a financing lease. The remaining finance lease obligation of $116 million at December 31, 2008 is being reduced by a portion of the lease payments over the remaining lease term of approximately 16 years.
Annual maturities on long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 are as follows:
 
CSC has authorization from its Board of Directors to issue unsecured commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper Notes) not to exceed $1.5 billion. Management has set a current limit for the commercial paper program of $800 million. The maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes may vary, but are not to exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The commercial paper is not redeemable prior to maturity and is not subject to voluntary prepayment. The proceeds of the commercial paper program are to be used for general corporate purposes. CSC commenced issuing Commercial Paper Notes in April 2008. There were no Commercial Paper Notes outstanding at December 31, 2008.
CSC maintains an $800 million committed, unsecured credit facility with a group of fourteen banks which is scheduled to expire in June 2009. This facility replaced a facility that expired in June 2008. Any issuances under CSC's commercial program will reduce the amount available under this facility. The funds under this facility are available for general corporate purposes, including repayment of Commercial Paper Notes discussed above. The financial covenants in this facility require Schwab to maintain a minimum net capital ratio, as defined, Schwab Bank to be well capitalized, as defined, and CSC to maintain a minimum level of stockholders' equity. At December 31, 2008, the minimum level of stockholders' equity required under this facility was $2.6 billion. These facilities were unused at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
To manage short-term liquidity, Schwab maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group of six banks totaling $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008. CSC has access to $1.0 billion of these credit lines. The amount available to CSC under these lines is lower than the amount available to Schwab because the credit line provided by one of these banks is only available to Schwab. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
To satisfy the margin requirement of client option transactions with the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), Schwab has unsecured standby letter of credit (LOCs) agreements with seven banks in favor of the OCC aggregating $550 million at December 31, 2008. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to provide collateral to certain brokerage clients. Schwab satisfies the collateral requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $100 million. No funds were drawn under any of these LOCs at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
The Company has noncancelable operating leases for office space and equipment. Future minimum rental commitments under these leases, net of committed subleases, at December 31, 2008 are as follows:
Operating leases and other commitments:
 
 
Certain leases contain provisions for renewal options, purchase options, and rent escalations based on increases in certain costs incurred by the lessor. Rent expense was $186 million in 2008, $180 million in 2007, and $166 million in 2006.
The Company has purchase obligations for services such as advertising and marketing, telecommunications, professional services, and hardware- and software-related agreements. At December 31, 2008, the Company has purchase obligations as follows:
Purchase Obligations:
 
The Company recognizes, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the estimated fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The fair values of the obligations relating to standby LOCs are estimated based on fees charged to enter into similar agreements, considering the creditworthiness of the counterparties. The fair values of the obligations relating to other guarantees are estimated based on transactions for similar guarantees or expected present value measures.
Guarantees:
 
 
In the normal course of business, the Company provides certain indemnifications (i.e., protection against damage or loss) to counterparties in connection with the disposition of certain of its assets. Such indemnifications are generally standard contractual terms with various expiration dates and typically relate to title to the assets transferred, ownership of intellectual property rights (e.g., patents), accuracy of financial statements, compliance with laws and regulations, failure to pay, satisfy or discharge any liability, or to defend claims, as well as errors, omissions, and misrepresentations. The maximum potential future liability under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded a liability for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of events that would trigger payments under these agreements is remote.
Separately, the Company has guaranteed certain payments in the event of a termination of certain mutual fund sub-advisor agreements, related to the adoption of AXA Rosenberg LLC's U.S. family of mutual funds, known as the Laudus Funds. Additionally, the Company has provided indemnifications related to facility leases and technology services to a counterparty in connection with the disposition of certain of its assets. At December 31, 2008, the Company's maximum potential future liability under these agreements was approximately $120 million. Further, as discussed below under "Legal contingencies," the Company provided an indemnification to UBS Securities LLC and UBS Americas Inc. (collectively referred to as UBS) for expenses associated with certain litigation. At December 31, 2008, the Company has a recorded liability of approximately $20 million reflecting the estimated fair value of these guarantees and indemnifications. The fair value of these guarantees and indemnifications is not necessarily indicative of amounts that would be paid in the event a payment was required.
The Company has clients that sell (i.e., write) listed option contracts that are cleared by various clearing houses. The clearing houses establish margin requirements on these transactions. The Company satisfies the margin requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of the clearing houses, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $550 million. In connection with its securities lending activities, Schwab is required to provide collateral to certain brokerage clients. Schwab satisfies the collateral requirements by arranging LOCs, in favor of these brokerage clients, which are issued by multiple banks. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate face amount of these LOCs totaled $100 million. No funds were drawn under any of these LOCs at December 31, 2008.
The Company also provides guarantees to securities clearing houses and exchanges under their standard membership agreement, which requires members to guarantee the performance of other members. Under the agreement, if another member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearing houses and exchanges, other members would be required to meet shortfalls. The Company's liability under these arrangements is not quantifiable and may exceed the cash and securities it has posted as collateral. However, the potential requirement for the Company to make payments under these arrangements is remote. Accordingly, no liability has been recognized for these transactions.
The Company is subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, some of which include claims for substantial or unspecified damages. The Company is also the subject of inquiries, investigations, and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies. In addition, the Company is responding to certain litigation claims brought against former subsidiaries pursuant to indemnities it has provided to purchasers of those entities. Certain of these matters are described below.
Legal contingencies:
The Company believes it has strong defenses in all significant matters currently pending and is contesting liability and the damages claimed. Nevertheless, some of these matters may result in adverse judgments or awards, including penalties, injunctions, or other relief, and the Company may also determine to settle a matter because of the uncertainty and risks of litigation. Predicting the outcome of a matter is inherently difficult, particularly where claims are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages, or when investigations or legal proceedings are at an early stage. In many cases, including those matters described below, it is not possible to determine whether a loss will be incurred or to estimate the range of that loss until the matter is close to resolution. However, based on current information and consultation with counsel, management believes that the resolution of matters currently pending will not have a material adverse impact on the financial condition or cash flows of the Company, but could be material to the Company's operating results for a particular future period, depending on results for that period.
: The Company is the subject of nine purported class action lawsuits filed between March and May 2008 on behalf of investors in the Schwab YieldPlus Fund alleging violations of state law and federal securities law in
YieldPlus Fund Litigation
 
 
connection with the fund's investment policy, disclosures and fund marketing. Defendants named in one or more of the lawsuits include the Company, Schwab, CSIM, the fund itself, Schwab Investments (registrant and issuer of the fund's shares), Charles R. Schwab, Randall W. Merk (current president of the fund), and current and former trustees and officers of the fund and/or Schwab. Claimants seek unspecified compensatory and rescission damages, unspecified equitable and injunctive relief, and costs and attorneys fees. On July 3, 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California consolidated all nine lawsuits into a single action for purposes of pre-trial proceedings and appointed a group of fund investors as lead plaintiff. On October 2, 2008, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint which seeks certification of two separate classes of plaintiffs for the federal and state law claims. On February 4, 2009, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss plaintiffs' federal law and certain state law claims, dismissed certain state law claims without prejudice, and lifted a stay on discovery.
: On August 28, 2008, a class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of investors in the Schwab Total Bond Market Fund. The lawsuit, which alleges violations of state law and federal securities law in connection with the fund's investment policy, names the fund, Schwab Investments (registrant and issuer of the fund's shares), Schwab, and CSIM as defendants. Claimants seek unspecified compensatory and rescission damages, unspecified equitable and injunctive relief, and costs and attorneys fees. On February 19, 2009, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss plaintiff's federal law claim, and dismissed certain state law claims with leave to amend.
Total Bond Market Fund Litigation
: As part of the sale of Schwab Capital Markets L.P. and all of the outstanding capital stock of SoundView Technology Group, Inc. (SoundView), (collectively referred to as Schwab SoundView Capital Markets, or SSCM), to UBS, the Company agreed to indemnify UBS for certain litigation. SoundView and certain of its subsidiaries are among the numerous financial institutions named as defendants in multiple purported securities class actions filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the IPO Allocation Litigation) between June and December 2001. The IPO Allocation Litigation was brought on behalf of persons who either directly or in the aftermarket purchased IPO securities between March 1997 and December 2000. The plaintiffs allege that SoundView entities and the other underwriters named as defendants required customers receiving allocations of IPO shares to pay excessive and undisclosed commissions on unrelated trades and to purchase shares in the aftermarket at prices higher than the IPO price, in violation of the federal securities laws. SoundView entities have been named in 31 of the actions, each involving a different company's IPO, and had underwriting commitments in approximately 90 other IPOs that are the subject of lawsuits. SoundView entities have not been named as defendants in these cases, although the lead underwriters in those IPOs have asserted that depending on the outcome of the cases, SoundView entities may have indemnification or contribution obligations based on underwriting commitments in the IPOs. The parties, with the assent of the District Court, selected 17 cases as focus cases for the purpose of case-specific discovery, and on October 13, 2004, the District Court allowed six of the focus cases to proceed as class actions. Defendants appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which issued an order on December 5, 2006 reversing the District Court's decision to allow the six focus cases to proceed as class actions. On April 6, 2007, the Court of Appeals denied the plaintiffs' request for rehearing. In August and September 2007, plaintiffs filed amended class action complaints and renewed motions for class certification, which again seek approval for the cases to proceed as class actions. On March 26, 2008, the District Court denied defendants' motion to dismiss the amended class action complaints, except with respect to certain claims of a limited number of plaintiffs who sold securities at prices in excess of the initial offering price or who purchased securities outside the class period.
SoundView Litigation
 
Through Schwab, the Company loans client securities temporarily to other brokers in connection with its securities lending activities. The Company receives cash as collateral for the securities loaned. Increases in security prices may cause the market value of the securities loaned to exceed the amount of cash received as collateral. In the event the counterparty to these transactions does not return the loaned securities or provide additional cash collateral, the Company may be exposed to the risk of acquiring the securities at prevailing market prices in order to satisfy its client obligations. The Company mitigates this risk by requiring credit approvals for counterparties, by monitoring the market value of securities loaned, and by requiring additional cash as collateral when necessary. The market value of Schwab's client securities pledged
Securities lending:
 
 
in securities lending transactions to other broker-dealers was $760 million and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, Schwab borrows securities from other broker-dealers to fulfill short sales of its clients. The market value of these borrowed securities was $259 million and $320 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The Company is obligated to settle transactions with brokers and other financial institutions even if its clients fail to meet their obligations to the Company. Clients are required to complete their transactions on settlement date, generally three business days after trade date. If clients do not fulfill their contractual obligations, the Company may incur losses. The Company has established procedures to reduce this risk by requiring deposits from clients in excess of amounts prescribed by regulatory requirements for certain types of trades, and therefore the potential for Schwab to make payments under these client transactions is remote. Accordingly, no liability has been recognized for these transactions.
Client trade settlement:
Schwab provides margin loans to its clients which are collateralized by securities in their brokerage accounts. Schwab may be liable for the margin requirement of its client margin securities transactions. As clients write options or sell securities short, the Company may incur losses if the clients do not fulfill their obligations and the collateral in client accounts is not sufficient to fully cover losses which clients may incur from these strategies. To mitigate this risk, the Company monitors required margin levels and clients are required to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. Clients with margin loans have agreed to allow Schwab to pledge collateralized securities in their brokerage accounts in accordance with federal regulations. Schwab was allowed, under such regulations, to pledge securities with a market value of $9.2 billion and $16.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The market value of Schwab's client securities pledged to fulfill the short sales of its clients was $591 million and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The market value of Schwab's client securities pledged to fulfill Schwab's proprietary short sales was $42 million and $38 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Schwab has also pledged a portion of its securities owned in order to fulfill the short sales of clients and in connection with securities lending transactions to other broker-dealers. The market value of these pledged securities was $7 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company may also pledge client securities to fulfill client margin requirements for open option contracts established with the OCC. The market value of these pledged securities to the OCC was $774 million and $215 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Margin lending:
The Company maintains inventories in securities on a long and short basis relating to its fixed income operations. The Company could incur losses or gains as a result of changes in the fair value of these securities. To mitigate the risk of losses, long and short positions are marked to market and are monitored by management to assure compliance with limits established by the Company.
Financial instruments held for trading purposes:
Schwab enters into collateralized resale agreements principally with other broker-dealers, which could result in losses in the event the counterparty to the transaction does not purchase the securities held as collateral for the cash advanced and the market value of these securities declines. To mitigate this risk, Schwab requires that the counterparty deliver securities to a custodian, to be held as collateral, with a market value in excess of the resale price. Schwab also sets standards for the credit quality of the counterparty, monitors the market value of the underlying securities as compared to the related receivable, including accrued interest, and requires additional collateral where deemed appropriate. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the market value of collateral received in connection with resale agreements that are available to be repledged or sold was $6.8 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. For Schwab to repledge or sell this collateral, it would be required to deposit into its segregated reserve bank accounts cash and/or securities of an equal amount in order to meet its segregated cash and investment requirement.
Resale and repurchase agreements:
The Company is subject to concentration risk when holding large positions of financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry.
Concentration risk:
The Company's investments in mortgage-backed securities totaled $10.4 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of these, $8.2 billion and $2.9 billion were U.S. agency securities and $2.2 billion and $3.5 billion were non-agency securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in the non-agency mortgage-backed securities portfolio at December 31, 2008 are securities collateralized by loans that are considered "Alt-A". Alt-A mortgage-backed securities experienced deteriorating credit characteristics and valuation pressure in 2008. At December 31, 2008, the
 
 
amortized cost and fair value of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities were $798 million and $429 million, respectively.
The Company's investments in corporate debt securities and commercial paper totaled $3.5 billion and $784 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, with the majority issued by institutions in the financial services industry. Included in corporate debt securities and commercial paper at December 31, 2008, were $2.6 billion of securities issued by financial institutions and guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. These corporate debt securities and commercial paper are included in securities available for sale and cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes.
The Company's portfolio of loans to banking clients totaled $6.0 billion and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately 80% of the residential real estate mortgages consisted of loans with interest-only payment terms. At December 31, 2008, the interest rates on approximately 80% of these interest-only loans are not scheduled to reset for three or more years. All interest-only loans are underwritten based on underwriting standards that do not include interest terms described as temporary introductory rates below current market rates. At December 31, 2008, 33% of residential real estate mortgages and 46% of the home equity lines of credit (HELOC) balances were secured by properties which are located in California. At December 31, 2007, 31% of residential real estate mortgages and 45% of the HELOC balances were secured by properties which are located in California.
The Company is also subject to concentration risk from its margin and securities lending activities collateralized by securities of a single issuer or industry.
The Company is subject to indirect exposure to U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral to secure its resale agreements. The Company's primary credit exposure on these resale transactions is with its counterparty. The Company would have exposure to the U.S. Government and agency securities only in the event of the counterparty's default on the resale agreements. U.S. Government and agency securities held as collateral for resale agreements at December 31, 2008 and 2007 totaled $6.8 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively.
In the normal course of business, Schwab Bank enters into various transactions involving off-balance sheet financial instruments to meet the needs of their clients and to reduce their own exposure to interest rate risk. The credit risk associated with these instruments varies depending on the creditworthiness of the client and the value of any collateral held. Collateral requirements vary by type of instrument. The contractual amounts of these instruments represent the amounts at risk should the contract be fully drawn upon, the client default, and the value of any existing collateral become worthless.
Commitments to extend credit:
Credit-related financial instruments represent firm commitments to extend credit (firm commitments). Firm commitments are legally binding agreements to lend to a client that generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses, may require payment of a fee and are not secured by collateral until funds are advanced. Collateral held includes marketable securities, real estate mortgages or other assets. The majority of Schwab Bank's firm commitments are related to mortgage lending to banking clients. Firm commitments totaled $5.0 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
CSC uses Swaps to effectively convert the interest rate characteristics of a portion of its Medium-Term Notes from fixed to variable. These Swaps are structured for CSC to receive a fixed rate of interest and pay a variable rate of interest based on the three-month LIBOR rate. The variable interest rates reset every three months. Information on these Swaps is summarized in the following table:
Interest rate Swaps:
 
 
 
These Swaps have been designated as fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133, and are recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheet at fair value. Changes in fair value of the Swaps are completely offset by changes in fair value of the hedged Medium-Term Notes resulting in no effect on net income. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, CSC recorded a derivative asset of $9 million and $6 million, respectively, for these Swaps. Concurrently, the carrying value of the Medium-Term Notes was increased by $9 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Schwab Bank's loans held for sale portfolio consists of fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages, which are subject to a loss in value when market interest rates rise. Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to manage this risk. These forward sale commitments have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments, and are recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). Amounts included in other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified into earnings when the related loan is sold. At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, the derivative asset and liability recorded by Schwab Bank for these forward sale commitments were not material.
Forward sale and interest rate lock commitments:
Additionally, Schwab Bank uses forward sale commitments to hedge interest rate lock commitments issued on mortgage loans that will be held for sale. Schwab Bank considers the fair value of these commitments to be zero at the commitment date, with subsequent changes in fair value determined solely based on changes in market interest rates. Any changes in fair value of the interest rate lock commitments are completely offset by changes in fair value of the related forward sale commitments. Schwab Bank had interest rate lock commitments on mortgage loans to be held for sale with principal balances totaling approximately $452 million and $131 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, the derivative asset and liability recorded by Schwab Bank for these interest rate lock commitments and the related forward sale commitments were not material.
 
SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or the price paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. SFAS No. 157 also establishes a hierarchy for disclosing assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on the inputs used to value them. The fair value hierarchy maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are based on market pricing data obtained from sources independent of the Company. A quoted price in an active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and is generally used to measure fair value whenever available. Unobservable inputs reflect management's judgment about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Where inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or liability are from different levels of the hierarchy, the asset or liability is categorized based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Assessing the significance of a particular input requires judgment. The fair value hierarchy includes three levels based on the objectivity of the inputs as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value
The Company's assets recorded at fair value include certain investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, other securities owned, and securities available for sale. The Company uses prices obtained from an independent third-party pricing service to measure the fair value of certain investment securities. The Company validates prices received from the pricing service using various methods including comparison to prices received from additional pricing services, comparison to quoted market prices, where available, comparison to internal valuation models, and review of other relevant market data including implied yields of major categories of securities. The Company does not adjust the prices received from the independent third-party pricing service unless such prices are inconsistent with SFAS No. 157 and result in a material difference in the recorded amounts. At December 31, 2008, the Company did not adjust prices received from the independent third-party pricing service. To measure the fair value of certificates of deposits and treasury securities included in investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes, the Company uses discounted cash flow models that utilize market-based inputs including observable market interest rates that correspond to the remaining maturities or next interest reset dates. Liabilities recorded at fair value are not material.
The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2008 for assets and liabilities measured at fair value:
 
 
Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Not Recorded at Fair Value
Descriptions of the valuation methodologies used to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value, are as follows:
include cash and highly liquid investments, receivables and payables from/ to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, receivables and payables from/ to brokerage clients, interest and non-interest bearing deposits from banking clients, and drafts, accounts, taxes, interest, and compensation payable. Assets and liabilities in these categories are short-term in nature and accordingly are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, deposits from banking clients, payables, and accrued expenses and other liabilities
include securities purchased under resale agreements. Securities purchased under resale agreements are recorded at par value plus accrued interest. Securities purchased under resale agreements are short-term in nature and are backed by collateral that both exceeds the carrying value of the resale agreement and is highly liquid in nature. Accordingly, the carrying value approximates fair value.
Cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes
include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit card and student loans. Securities held to maturity are recorded at amortized cost. The fair value of these securities is obtained using an independent third-party pricing service, as discussed above.
Securities held to maturity
 
 
primarily include adjustable-rate first-mortgage and HELOC loans. Loans to banking clients are recorded at carrying value net of an allowance for credit losses. The fair value of the Company's loans to banking clients is estimated based on market prices for mortgage-backed securities collateralized by similar types of loans.
Loans to banking clients
include fixed rate first-mortgage and HELOC loans. Loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or market value. The fair value of the Company's loans held for sale is estimated using quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans.
Loans held for sale
includes medium term notes, junior subordinated notes, and a finance lease obligation. The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated using indicative, non-binding quotes from independent brokers.
Long-term debt
The Company extends credit to banking clients through HELOC commitments. The Company considers the fair value of unused HELOC commitments to be not material because the interest rate earned on HELOC outstanding balances is based on the Prime rate and resets monthly. Future utilization of HELOC commitments will earn a then current market interest rate. The Company does not charge a fee to maintain a HELOC.
Firm commitments to extend credit:
The table below presents the Company's fair value estimates as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 for financial instruments excluding short-term financial assets and liabilities, for which carrying amounts approximate fair value, and excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value.
 
 
 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss represents cumulative gains and losses that are not reflected in earnings. The components of other comprehensive (loss) income are as follows:
 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss balances were:
 
 
 
A summary of the Company's stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefit is as follows:
 
 
The Company issues shares for stock options and restricted stock awards from treasury stock. At December 31, 2008, the Company was authorized to grant up to 32 million common shares under its existing stock incentive plans.
As of December 31, 2008, there was $143 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of forfeitures, related to outstanding stock option and restricted stock awards, which is expected to be recognized through 2013 with a remaining weighted-average period of 3.1 years.
Stock Option Plans
The Company's stock incentive plans provide for granting options to employees, officers, and directors. Options are granted for the purchase of shares of common stock at an exercise price not less than market value on the date of grant, and expire within seven or ten years from the date of grant. Options generally vest annually over a three- to four-year period from the date of grant. Certain options are granted at an exercise price above the market value of common stock on the date of grant (i.e., premium-priced options).
The Company's stock option activity (including options held by employees of discontinued operations) is summarized below:
 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the difference between CSC's closing stock price and the exercise price of each in-the-money option on the last trading day of the period presented.
 
 
Information on stock options granted and exercised during the years is presented below:
 
Management uses a binomial option pricing model to estimate the fair value of options granted. The binomial model takes into account the contractual term of the stock option, expected volatility, dividend yield, and risk-free interest rate. Expected volatility is based on the implied volatility of publicly-traded options on CSC's stock. Dividend yield is based on the average historical CSC dividend yield. The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield of a U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issue with a remaining term equal to the contractual term of the option. Management uses historical option exercise data, which includes employee termination data to estimate the probability of future option exercises. Management uses the Black-Scholes model to solve for the expected life of options valued with the binomial model presented below. The assumptions used to value the Company's options and their expected life were as follows:
 
Restricted Stock Plans
The Company's stock incentive plans provide for granting restricted stock awards to employees, officers, and directors. Restricted stock awards are restricted from transfer or sale and generally vest annually over a three- to four-year period, but some vest based upon the Company achieving certain financial or other measures. The fair value of restricted stock awards is based on the market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant and is generally amortized to restricted stock expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The total fair value of the restricted stock awards (including awards held by employees of discontinued operations in 2007 and 2006) that vested during each of the years 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $41 million, $96 million, and $55 million, respectively.
The Company's restricted stock awards activity is summarized below:
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), eligible employees can purchase shares of CSC's common stock using amounts withheld through payroll deductions subject to limitations. Payroll deductions are accumulated during six month offering periods that start each year on February 1
st
and August 1
st
. The purchase price for each share of common stock
 
 
is 85% of the fair market value of the shares on the last trading day of the offering period. At December 31, 2008, the Company had 49 million shares reserved for future issuance under the ESPP.
Long-term Incentive Plans
Eligible officers received LTIP units under the Company's long-term incentive program. These awards are restricted from transfer or sale and generally vest annually over a three- to four-year performance period. The cash payout of the LTIP units, which may range from $0 to $4 per unit, are made following the end of the performance period based upon the Company achieving certain cumulative EPS levels. The last performance period on existing grants under this incentive program ended on December 31, 2008.
LTIP unit information (including units held by employees of discontinued operations) is as follows:
 
The excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock awards, which for accounting purposes are recorded in additional paid-in capital, were $50 million, $108 million, and $64 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
 
 
Income tax expense from discontinued operations was $18 million in 2008 and related to the determination of the final income tax gain on the sale of U.S. Trust. The net income tax expense from discontinued operations was $691 million in 2007 and included $763 million of income tax expense related to income from discontinued operations and the gain on sale of U.S. Trust and a $72 million income tax benefit related to the excess of the tax basis of U.S. Trust stock over book basis. The net income tax benefit from discontinued operations was $134 million in 2006 and included a $205 million income tax benefit related to the excess of the tax basis of U.S. Trust stock over the book basis.
The temporary differences that created deferred tax assets and liabilities are detailed below:
 
The Company determined that no valuation allowance against deferred tax assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was necessary.
The effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations differs from the amount computed by applying the federal statutory income tax rate as follows:
 
The effective income tax rate including discontinued operations was 40.2% in 2008, 37.2% in 2007, and 26.9% in 2006. The difference between the effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations and the effective income tax rate including discontinued operations was primarily due to the $18 million income tax expense in 2008, and the $72 million and $205 million income tax benefits in 2007 and 2006, respectively, discussed above.
 
 
The Company's unrecognized tax benefits, which are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities, represent the difference between positions taken on tax return filings and the requirements under FIN No. 48 to consider potential tax settlement outcomes. Resolving these uncertain tax matters in the Company's favor would reduce income tax expense from continuing operations by $8 million, net of federal tax benefit. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
 
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in taxes on income. Interest charges for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were not material. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had a liability for estimated interest on the unrecognized tax benefits of $3 million and $3 million, respectively.
CSC and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the federal jurisdiction, as well as most state and applicable local jurisdictions and are subject to routine examinations by the respective taxing authorities. Federal return audits have been completed through 2005.
 
 
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The computation of diluted EPS is similar to the computation of basic EPS except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been issued. Dilutive potential common shares are determined using the treasury stock method, and include outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards. EPS under the basic and diluted computations are as follows:
 
 
 
CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC's depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. CSC and Schwab Bank are both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to specific statutory capital requirements. However, CSC is required to maintain capital that is sufficient to support the holding company and its subsidiaries' business activities, and the risks inherent in those activities.
Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and supervision and to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements govern transactions with CSC and its non-depository institution subsidiaries, including loans and other extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases, dividends and investments. The federal banking agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Schwab Bank could be subject to restrictive actions if it were to fall within one of the lowest three of five capital categories. Schwab Bank is required to maintain a capital level that at least equals minimum capital levels specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels will result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank. At December 31, 2008, CSC and Schwab Bank met all the above requirements.
 
 
The regulatory capital and ratios for Schwab Bank are as follows:
 
 
N/A Not applicable.
Based on its regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2008 and 2007, Schwab Bank is considered well capitalized (the highest category) pursuant to banking regulatory guidelines. There are no conditions or events that management believes have changed Schwab Bank's well-capitalized status.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System requires Schwab Bank to maintain reserve balances at the Federal Reserve Bank based on certain deposit levels. Schwab Bank's average reserve requirement was $284 million in 2008 and $68 million in 2007.
Schwab is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule). Schwab computes net capital under the alternative method permitted by the Uniform Net Capital Rule. This method requires the maintenance of minimum net capital, as defined, of the greater of 2% of aggregate debit balances arising from client transactions or a minimum dollar requirement, which is based on the type of business conducted by the broker-dealer. At December 31, 2008, 2% of aggregate debits was $156 million, which exceeded the minimum dollar requirement for Schwab of $250,000. At December 31, 2008, Schwab's net capital was $1.2 billion (16% of aggregate debit balances), which was $1.1 billion in excess of its minimum required net capital and $840 million in excess of 5% of aggregate debit balances. Under the alternative method, a broker-dealer may not repay subordinated borrowings, pay cash dividends, or make any unsecured advances or loans to its parent or employees if such payment would result in net capital of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement.
Schwab is also subject to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires Schwab to maintain cash or qualified securities in a segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of clients. In accordance with Rule 15c3-3, Schwab had portions of its cash and investments segregated for the exclusive benefit of clients at December 31, 2008. Amounts included in cash and investments segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes represent actual balances on deposit, whereas cash and investments required to be segregated and on deposit for regulatory purposes at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $14.5 billion and $10.2 billion respectively. On January 5, 2009 and January 3, 2008, the Company deposited a net amount of $216 million and $1.7 billion, respectively, into its segregated reserve bank accounts.
 
Operating segments are defined as components of a company in which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company structures its operating segments according to its various types of clients and the services provided to those clients. The Company's two reportable segments are Investor Services (formerly called Schwab Investor Services) and Institutional Services. As a result of organizational and related business changes in the first quarter of 2009, the
 
 
segments formerly reported as Advisor Services (formerly called Schwab Institutional) and Corporate and Retirement Services (formerly called Schwab Corporate and Retirement Services) have been combined into a single segment called Institutional Services. Previously reported segment information has been revised to reflect this change.
The Investor Services segment includes the Company's retail brokerage and banking operations. The Institutional Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors, as well as retirement plan services, plan administrator services, stock plan services, and mutual fund clearing services. In addition, the Institutional Services segment supports the availability of Schwab proprietary mutual funds on third-party platforms.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in note "2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies." Financial information for the Company's reportable segments is presented in the following table. For the computation of its segment information, the Company utilizes an activity-based costing model to allocate traditional income statement line item expenses (e.g., compensation and benefits, depreciation, and professional services) to the business activities driving segment expenses (e.g., client service, opening new accounts, or business development) and a funds transfer pricing methodology to allocate certain revenues.
The Company evaluates the performance of its segments on a pre-tax basis excluding items such as restructuring charges, impairment charges on non-financial assets, discontinued operations, and extraordinary items. Assets are not disclosed because the balances are not used for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to segments. However, capital expenditures are used in resource allocation and are therefore disclosed. There are no revenues from transactions with other segments within the Company. Capital expenditures are reported gross, as opposed to net of proceeds from the sale of fixed assets.
 
 
Financial information for the Company's reportable segments is presented in the following table:
 
Fees received from Schwab's proprietary mutual funds represented approximately 24% of the Company's consolidated net revenues in 2008, 23% in 2007, and 22% in 2006. Except for Schwab's proprietary mutual funds, which are considered a single client for purposes of this computation, no single client accounted for more than 10% of the Company's consolidated net revenues in 2008, 2007, or 2006. Substantially all of the Company's revenues and assets are generated or located in the U.S. The percentage of Schwab's total client accounts located in California was approximately 24%, 24%, and 25% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
 
 
Net revenues categorized by similar products and services are shown in the following table:
 
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the Company's reportable segments for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment as presented in the following table:
 
 
In 2007, CSC completed a capital restructuring that returned approximately $3.3 billion in capital to stockholders to create a more efficient and cost-effective capital structure. The capital restructuring included the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 31, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of The 401(k) Company, which offers retirement plan services, for $115 million in cash. The acquisition enhanced the Company's ability to meet the needs of retirement plans of all sizes, as well as provided the opportunity to capture rollover accounts from individuals participating in retirement plans served by The 401(k) Company and to cross-sell the Company's other investment and banking services to plan participants. The Company's consolidated financial statements include The 401(k) Company as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC from March 31, 2007. Pro-forma financial information for The 401(k) Company is not presented as it is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. As a result of a purchase price allocation, the Company recorded goodwill of $106 million and intangible assets of $8 million, both of which are deductible for tax purposes over a period of 15 years. The intangible assets, which relate to customer relationships, are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 16 years. The goodwill was allocated to the Institutional Services segment.
 
On July 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of all of the outstanding common stock of U.S. Trust for $3.3 billion in cash. The components of (loss) income from discontinued operations related to U.S. Trust are as follows:
 
 
When calculating the Company's gain on the sale of U.S. Trust for income tax purposes, the acquisition date tax basis is the basis of U.S. Trust's prior stockholders in their shares as of the date U.S. Trust was acquired by the Company, since the transaction qualified as a tax-free exchange. In 2006, the Company recorded a $205 million income tax benefit related to the estimated difference between the tax and book bases of the Company's U.S. Trust stock. This amount was included in income from discontinued operations, net of tax, on the Company's consolidated statements of income. This initial estimate of the tax benefit was based on publicly available information, including information on the composition of U.S. Trust's stockholders at the acquisition date and the market price of U.S. Trust stock during relevant periods, and was subject to adjustment following a survey of former U.S. Trust stockholders. The Company completed the survey in the third quarter of 2007. Based upon the results of this survey, the Company recorded an additional $72 million income tax benefit in 2007. The IRS completed their examination of the acquisition date tax basis under a pre-filing agreement in the second quarter of 2008. In connection with the determination of the final income tax gain on the sale of U.S. Trust, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $18 million in the second quarter of 2008. This amount was recorded in loss from discontinued operations.
In May 2007, Schwab terminated an arrangement with U.S. Trust by which the excess cash held in certain Schwab brokerage client accounts was swept into a money market deposit account at U.S. Trust. Schwab moved all of these balances to a similar existing arrangement with Schwab Bank. The interest expense related to these client deposit balances maintained at U.S. Trust is included in interest expense from continuing operations on the Company's consolidated statements of income for 2007 and 2006. This interest expense was $4 million and $11 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The corresponding interest revenue on the invested cash balances related to these deposits is included in interest revenue from continuing operations on the Company's consolidated statements of income for 2007 and 2006. This interest revenue was $14 million and $38 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The interest revenue amount was calculated using the Company's funds transfer pricing methodology.
 
 
A summary of the activity in the facilities restructuring reserve related to the Company's past restructuring initiatives, as well as certain restructuring-related obligations, is as follows:
 
 
 
Condensed Balance Sheets
 
 
 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Charles Schwab Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Charles Schwab Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company on page F-2. We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
 
San Francisco, California
February 24, 2009, except for the last paragraph of Note 2, Note 19, and Note 21, as to which the date is May 27, 2009
 
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management of The Charles Schwab Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (the Company), is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of and effected by the Company's chief executive officer and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of published financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As of December 31, 2008, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.
The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the Company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.
The Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on the previous page.
 


