FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20090116145936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 16, 2009, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its income from continuing operations was $308 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, up 1% from the fourth quarter of 2007. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, the company's income from continuing operations was a record $1.2 billion, up 10% from the year-earlier period. The company's fourth quarter results include $25 million in pre-tax severance charges.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 16, 2009
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "Investors needed a trusted ally more than ever during 2008 as they faced a faltering economy, 40% declines in the broad equity indices, and disarray across much of financial services. Schwab's financial soundness, stability, and relentless client focus have helped us stand out during this storm. We've been able to operate from a position of strength and direct all of our skill and energy toward helping our clients navigate the toughest environment in generations."
 
 
CEO Walt Bettinger noted, "Our ability to continue building stronger client relationships while setting financial records during such a challenging year reaffirms our confidence in Schwab's business model and client focus. Net new assets, while pressured by the environment, still totaled $113 billion, new brokerage accounts reached 889,000, up 10% year-over-year, total brokerage accounts rose 5% to 7.4 million, corporate retirement plan participants were up 17% to 1.4 million, and banking accounts ended the year at 447,000, up 71%. These results reflect the dedication of our employees, whose commitment to both great client service and careful expense management made it possible for our 2008 income and earnings per share from continuing operations to reach new highs. Although we face significant revenue challenges as we enter 2009, our priorities are clear  sustaining our focus on client service and relationships; continuing the investments critical to the long-term health and growth of our business; and protecting Schwab's strength and stability."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "We began 2008 with the S&P 500 index at 1,468 and the Fed Funds rate at 4.25%; we closed the year at approximately 900 and zero. In the face of this deteriorating environment, our ongoing success with clients helped full-year asset management and administration fees stay comparable to 2007, while net interest revenue and trading revenue rose by 1% and 26%, respectively. Sustained expense discipline enabled us to turn the 3% overall revenue increase into a 10% improvement in income from continuing operations and a record 39.4% pre-tax profit margin, as well as a 31% return on equity."
"With equity valuations and short-term interest rates starting 2009 dramatically lower than a year ago and no positive catalyst currently in sight, we believe we must proceed as if the economic environment will not improve for some time," Mr. Martinetto continued. "Accordingly, to help support our priorities while offsetting at least some of the likely revenue pressure, we are proceeding with our previously announced effort to reduce expenses significantly, with the current expectation of identifying and implementing cuts totaling 7 to 8% of our 2008 total spending. We are also mindful that the overall mortgage market is another important element of the environment, and that further deterioration in this arena could negatively impact mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio; in particular, those holdings backed by Alt-A collateral, a relatively small portion of the total."
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
 
Corporate and Retirement Services
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q4_2008_schedule.xls
This press release contains a forward-looking statement relating to expense reductions that reflects management's current expectations. Achievement of these expectations is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ongoing ability to identify and implement expense savings without disrupting its operations, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.4 million client brokerage accounts, 1.4 million corporate retirement plan participants, 447,000 banking accounts, and $1.1 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Prior period amounts are presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude U.S. Trust Corporation, which was sold on July 1, 2007. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
 
 


