FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20090415143133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 15, 2009, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $218 million for the first quarter of 2009, down 29% from the first quarter of 2008. The company's first quarter results include a $26 million pre-tax gain relating to the repurchase of certain outstanding company debt, $14 million in pre-tax net impairment losses on certain mortgage-backed securities, and $59 million in pre-tax charges for severance and other costs relating to its previously announced expense reduction measures.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 15, 2009
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "In an environment that has tested the confidence of every investor, we see our role in a very clear light  to do everything we can to help each of our clients find the right path forward, and to ensure that we have a stable and steady business here to serve them. Our solid first quarter results are a good reflection of the strength of that approach."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "Our business is about serving our valued clients  and they stayed actively engaged with us in the first quarter. Although the market environment remained challenging for investors, the latter part of the quarter did show some glimpses of improvement. In addition to bringing a total of $25 billion in net new assets to the company during the first quarter, clients opened 207,000 new brokerage accounts and active brokerage accounts reached 7.5 million at month-end March, up 4% year-over-year. Moreover, banking accounts and retirement plan participants totaled 508,000 and 1.5 million at quarter-end, up 60% and 20%, respectively, from their March 2008 levels. This strong growth in the midst of so much financial and economic uncertainty reminds us every day that a stable and client focused approach has never been more important to our clients. As we continue to expand the base of investors and savers working with Schwab, we remain committed to being worthy of the trust they place in us  not only as a healthy, enduring institution, but as a reliable ally in working towards a better financial future for every one of them."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "Our balance sheet remains strong, with $4.3 billion in equity capital, a long-term debt to total capital ratio of 16%, and approximately $950 million in freely available cash. During the quarter, we took advantage of this strength and repurchased $64 million of our long-term debt, recognizing a one-time gain of $26 million pre-tax. Our net revenues for the first quarter were also affected by modest impairment losses of $14 million on some of the mortgage-backed securities collateralized by Alt-A mortgages that we own in our investment portfolios as long-term
holdings. Our portfolios included Alt-A backed securities with an amortized cost of $758 million at quarter-end, which represented just under 2% of the company's cash and investments."
Mr. Martinetto continued, "The company's core revenues were in line with our expectations given the environment. The overall decline in net revenues was limited to 15%  trading revenues were up 5% year-over-year, and asset inflows and further increases in client money market fund allocations helped mitigate declines in asset management and administration fees to 18% against equity valuations that remain down 30 to 40%. With our planned expense reduction measures essentially in place by early February, we were able to absorb the related charges and still lower expenses by 5% versus the first quarter of 2008. As a result, we achieved a 32% pre-tax profit margin and a 21% return on equity."
Mr. Martinetto concluded, "As we finish up facilities and other work relating to our recent staffing reductions, we expect to recognize approximately $40 million in additional charges for the second quarter. Overall, we believe that the infrastructure and spending plans now in place for the company are appropriate for 2009 and strike the right balance between current profitability and investing for the future in a tough environment. With the economy and financial markets still so unsettled and no catalyst for higher rates on the horizon, revenue pressures from reduced asset valuations and low rates  including the need for significant money market fund fee waivers to provide at least a minimal level of return for our clients  may persist in future quarters. Our financial priorities remain unchanged  keeping Schwab positioned to deliver healthy financial performance in the current downturn, and to show rapidly improving results in tandem with any recovery."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Corporate and Retirement Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:]
[http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q1_2009_schedule.xls
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to expense reductions and related charges, as well as revenue pressures and infrastructure and spending plans that reflect management's current expectations. Achievement of these expectations is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ongoing ability to identify, implement and sustain expense savings without disrupting its operations, the actual level of charges relating to those expense savings, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, including equity market valuations and the level of interest rates, changes in client utilization of money market mutual funds, and other factors set forth in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.5 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 508,000 banking accounts, and $1.1 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, http://www.sipc.org), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income and Financial and Operating Highlights.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. The consolidated statements of income and financial and operating highlights should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 


