FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20091015143944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2009, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2009  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $200 million for the third quarter of 2009, down 34% from the third quarter of 2008. For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the company's net income was $623 million, down 31% from the year-earlier period. As previously discussed by the company, Schwab's year-to-date 2009 financial results have been impacted by revenue declines stemming from falling interest rates and generally lower equity market valuations, which have been partially offset by expense reduction measures.
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "The equity markets' sustained rebound from March lows has reminded us all of the importance of developing an investment plan and sticking with it in all market cycles. Here at Schwab, we have seen the fear that gripped investor sentiment in 2008 and early 2009 begin to subside, with branch, website, and phone traffic all showing signs that more individuals are reexamining their investing strategies and looking for direction in managing their investments for the future. Our clients know they can turn to us for help in finding the right path forward  help that we provide through a combination of time-tested investment principles, market and economic perspectives and personalized guidance, along with access to the independent investment advisors served by the company. These capabilities are part of the uniquely comprehensive range of advice, products and services  at a great value  available to assist our clients with achieving their individual objectives. In addition, after yet another quarter of solid operating performance, Schwab maintains the financial strength and stability that investors expect in a trusted financial services relationship."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "It's clear that our clients have no intention of setting aside their financial affairs in the face of even the toughest environments  and that they need and expect Schwab to be ready to help them regardless of current conditions. Right now, some individuals are relying on professional guidance to rebuild their participation in the equity markets, while others remain more comfortable emphasizing low-risk cash and FDIC-insured deposit products. In addition, the independent advisors served by Schwab are seeing increased demand for their expertise. Overall, we attracted another $20 billion in net new assets during the third quarter, added 181,000 new brokerage accounts, and ended
the quarter with banking accounts and retirement plan participants up 67% and 10%, respectively, over year-earlier levels. Total client assets reached $1.36 trillion, up 5%, reflecting both improved equity market valuations and our success in continuing to attract and retain clients."
"Ultimately, further growth in our client base will be heavily influenced by how well we serve our clients, so we continue to balance appropriate investment in our client service capabilities with disciplined financial management as we deal with revenue headwinds," Mr. Bettinger said. "While growth in assets and accounts are direct measures of progress for us, we believe the fact that our internal measure of client loyalty  known as our Client Promoter Score  is actually higher now than at the beginning of the financial crisis, as well as our recent first-place finish in the 2009 J.D. Power Self-Directed Investor Study of client satisfaction, are both strong endorsements of our approach."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "Our financial picture continues to evolve as expected given the environment, with a healthy balance sheet and solid profitability even in the face of ongoing revenue pressures. Impairment losses on our investment portfolio remain contained and centered in our holdings of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities  credit-related charges recognized during the quarter totaled $11 million. In addition, the delinquency, nonaccrual, and loan loss reserve ratios for Schwab Bank's loan portfolio were 0.78%, 0.37%, and 0.63%, respectively, at month-end September, remaining well below national averages. We have well over $1 billion in readily available cash at the Parent level and we retain ample flexibility to support the company's ongoing growth."
Mr. Martinetto added, "Our third quarter revenues were down 19% from the year-earlier period, reflecting the headwinds we've been discussing for some time. Net interest revenue declined 34% year-over-year despite continued growth in client cash balances as further reductions in short-term interest rates lowered investment portfolio yields. Asset management and administration fees were helped by improving asset valuations, but money market fund fee waivers increased to $78 million as anticipated, resulting in a 24% decline. In addition, client trading activity slowed modestly from year-earlier levels, leading to a 4% drop in trading revenues. By sticking to our expense commitments, we were able to reduce costs by 8% for the quarter, which enabled the company to achieve a 32% pre-tax profit margin and a 17% return on equity."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
 
Corporate and Retirement Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at: []
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q3_2009_schedule.xls
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.6 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 667,000 banking accounts, and $1.36 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Named Highest in Investor Satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 
 


