FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20100119163509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 19, 2010, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
SAN FRANCISCO, January 19, 2010  The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $164 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, down 47% from the fourth quarter of 2008. These results are consistent with the outlook expressed in the company's press release dated December 14, 2009. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the company's net income was $787 million, down 35% from the year-earlier period.
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "The financial markets remain a powerful engine to drive economic recovery, and individual investors play a critical role in fueling that engine. We believe they deserve reliable access to professional help and high quality products and services, at a great value, to help them navigate towards their financial goals. As a stable, disciplined company, we were able to remain focused on meeting those needs throughout 2009. In addition, our ability to deliver solid profitability despite unrelenting pressure from declining interest rates enabled us to continue expanding and enhancing the capabilities we've built over Schwab's 30-plus year history. We remain convinced that sustained investment in our clients, particularly in tough economic environments, keeps us in a strong competitive position and is the best way to pursue the tremendous growth opportunities still ahead of us."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger noted, "Given the unprecedented market dynamics we faced during 2009, the company's ability to drive forward with greater value and improved capabilities for our clients while simultaneously maintaining quality service levels and delivering solid near-term profitability is further evidence of our fundamental strength. Important client-oriented actions taken during the year include a new high yield savings account, temporary fee waivers on certain advisory services, significant reductions in the expense ratios on our proprietary equity index funds, and the launch of an innovative proprietary ETF offering with extremely competitive management fees and commission-free trading."
Mr. Bettinger continued, "I believe our continued success in balancing priorities is reflected in the strength of both our client and financial metrics for 2009. Client loyalty scores reached new highs, new brokerage accounts exceeded 750,000 for the third consecutive year, net new assets reached $87 billion, down from 2008 but still far ahead
of the pace reported by any other firm, and total client assets rose by 25% to $1.42 trillion. At the same time, we achieved a pre-tax profit margin and net income for 2009 that were only exceeded in our history by the record-setting performance of the prior three years. We remain committed to achieving disciplined, profitable growth across all market cycles, and we know that growth is only made possible by keeping client needs front and center at all times."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "We maintained a healthy balance sheet and solid profitability throughout 2009. Asset quality remains high overall, and impairment losses on our investment portfolio  which relate to a small portion of our mortgage-backed securities holdings  totaled $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Additionally, the delinquency, nonaccrual and loan loss reserve ratios for Schwab Bank's loan portfolio continued to run well below national averages at 0.87%, 0.46%, and 0.61%, respectively, as of year-end 2009. Available cash and liquid investments at the parent level exceeded $1 billion at month-end December."
Mr. Martinetto added, "The broad equity indices have shown sustained improvement from their March 2009 lows and we have seen clear indications that clients are increasingly engaged with us in finding the right way forward in this shifting environment. Our ongoing success in building our client base and attracting new assets has led to significant growth in the earnings power of our balance sheet. The company's average balance of interest-bearing assets, which are primarily funded by client cash inflows, rose by $14.8 billion, or 34%, to $58.6 billion between 2008 and 2009. Over the near term, however, the net interest revenue generated by this growing asset base has been severely impacted by continued declines in the short-term interest rate environment, even as the overnight Fed Funds rate has been at essentially zero since late 2008. As we've been discussing for some time, with declining investment yields and essentially no room left to reduce liability costs, the resulting drop in our net interest spread has outweighed balance sheet growth, and net interest revenue declined by 28% in 2009."
"Money market fund fee waivers caused by declining rates rose to $110 million in the fourth quarter, bringing the full-year total to $224 million, which caused asset management fees to decline by 20%," Mr. Martinetto said. "In addition, while client trading activity remained healthy in 2009, trading revenue declined by 8% as the market volatility and record-setting volumes of late 2008 eventually eased. With no sign of higher short-term rates on the horizon, we implemented a series of expense reduction measures in 2009 that enabled us to lower costs by 7%, which in turn helped the company achieve a 30.4% pre-tax profit margin and a 17% return on equity, right in line with our expectations for the year given the environment."
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Corporate and Retirement Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at: s
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q4_2009_schedule.xl
In lieu of a separate post-earnings business update this quarter, Mr. Bettinger and Mr. Martinetto have recorded their current perspectives on the company's recent progress, ongoing focus, and financial outlook in a presentation that is available at: .
http://schwabevents.com/Corporation
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (Nasdaq: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.7 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 722,000 banking accounts, and $1.42 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Named Highest in Investor Satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. The Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC) provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 


