FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20100716155522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 16, 2010, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $205 million for the second quarter of 2010, flat to the second quarter of 2009 and up from $6 million for the first quarter of 2010. For the six months ended June 30, 2010, the company's net income was $211 million, down 50% from the year-earlier period. Schwab's first quarter and year-to-date 2010 results include charges totaling $120 million after-tax relating to the settlement of a civil class action lawsuit involving the Schwab YieldPlus Fund (the "Bond Fund").
SAN FRANCISCO, July 16, 2010
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "As we expected, our financial performance rebounded strongly in the second quarter  the company's revenues were up $102 million, or 10%, from the prior quarter, and ongoing expense discipline helped lift our pre-tax profit margin back over 30%. The economy is starting to find its footing, and short term interest rates have either stabilized or improved. In addition, despite ongoing equity market volatility, valuations continue to reflect a recovery from the lows of the financial crisis. Our focus on building stronger client relationships has not wavered, and we believe that today, more than ever, investors are well served by the kinds of products, services and financial guidance we provide. We're optimistic that all these factors will help us improve on our second quarter financial performance during the remainder of 2010."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "True to our strategy of focusing on client needs, we've kept up the pace of our investments in expanded and improved products, services and value. During the second quarter we launched a program with J.P. Morgan to provide improved access to fixed-income securities and research. We also reduced the management fees on our proprietary ETFs so that clients can utilize their unique combination of professional management, diversification and transparent pricing with both the lowest expense ratios in the industry and commission-free online trading. We continue to make significant investments in an enhanced platform for actively trading clients, new mobile applications for banking and brokerage, a major rebuild of our platform that serves investment advisors, and expanded global research and equity trading capabilities."
"Our sustained focus on meeting the needs of investors and the advisors who serve them remains the right path for our clients and the company, as reflected in the continued strength of our client metrics," Mr. Bettinger continued. "Net new assets totaled $14 billion in the second quarter (excluding outflows relating to a single Mutual Fund Clearing client who completed a planned transfer to an internal platform). Total client assets equaled $1.36 trillion at month-end June 2010, up 11% year-over-year. New brokerage accounts totaled 206,000, up 5% from the second quarter of 2009, and we ended the quarter with 7.9 million active brokerage accounts, up 4% from last June, as well as 803,000 banking accounts, a 35% increase. As a result of new corporate client additions, we continue to serve approximately 1.5 million retirement plan participants despite significant employee reductions at many client companies."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "Short-term interest rates rose a bit further between the first and second quarters, which, along with continuing solid growth performance in our credit portfolios, helped our net interest margin increase from 183 to 201 basis points. This improvement in net interest margin, along with higher levels of interest-bearing assets driven by continued growth in our client base, helped net interest income rise for the third consecutive quarter to $382 million. Higher short-term rates also helped reduce fee waivers on our money market funds to $113 million, and asset management and administration fees rose for the first time in eight quarters, reaching $437 million. We also reported a sequential increase in trading revenue for the second quarter of 2010, driven by the surge in client activity during May. Overall, our second quarter revenues were at their highest level in a year and represent the first sequential increase since the fourth quarter of 2008. Our second quarter spending was consistent with our 2010 plan, and we were able to achieve a 31.3% pre-tax profit margin. Solid results, to be sure, yet we see them primarily as a starting point - even if interest rates and equity market valuations just hold their ground in coming months, we are well positioned to turn our expanding client base into higher revenues and earnings while continuing to balance current profitability with investing for future growth."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Other Institutional Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at: []
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q2 2010 schedule.xls
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's financial performance in 2010 that reflect management's current expectations. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; unanticipated adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters, including the outcome of ongoing discussions with state and federal regulators and FINRA regarding the Bond Fund; the unknown costs of complying with new regulations emerging from recent financial reform legislation; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2010.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.9 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 803,000 banking accounts, and $1.36 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Named Highest in Investor Satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2010 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not Meaningful.


