FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20101015153252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2010, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $124 million for the third quarter of 2010, down 38% from $200 million for the third quarter of 2009. Schwab's third quarter net income was $218 million prior to the inclusion of previously announced charges totaling $94 million after-tax. Those charges relate to the company's decisions to cover the net remaining losses recognized by its money market mutual funds as a result of their investments in a single structured investment vehicle that defaulted in 2008, and to end the sponsorship of its affinity credit card program. For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the company's net income was $335 million, down 46% from the year-earlier period. The company's year-to-date results also include charges totaling $120 million after-tax relating to the settlement of a civil class action lawsuit involving the Schwab YieldPlus Fund, an ultra-short bond fund. The company's year-to-date net income prior to the inclusion of charges totaled $555 million after-tax.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2010
Chairman Charles Schwab commented, "During the third quarter, we demonstrated the operating leverage in our diversified business model as we grew revenue 5% from the year-ago quarter while expanding profits 9% after adjusting for charges. At a time when investors need help more than ever, we believe our model is the best for assisting clients in finding the right path forward, whether they're utilizing our unique combination of investment principles, market and economic perspectives, personalized guidance and investment products, or working with an independent investment advisor. Over $670 billion of the client assets currently at Schwab are either enrolled in one of our advisory offerings or under the guidance of an independent advisor, which represents a compound annual growth rate of 7% over the past 24 months."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger said, "During the third quarter we continued to invest in long-term growth strategies that are driving change in our industry by looking at investor needs from their perspective. We recently announced the pending acquisition of Windward Investment Management, Inc., a money manager with a long-term track record of managing broadly diversified, ETF-based investment portfolios with an emphasis on downside risk management. And we are continuing to invest in other growth related product and service capabilities, including a ground-breaking platform for
actively trading investors, significantly expanded fixed income capabilities and new issue access, new integrated mobile applications for banking and brokerage, a major rebuild of our investment advisor service and custodial platform, and expanded global research and equity trading capabilities."
Mr. Bettinger continued, "We believe that no firm meets the needs of a diverse population of investors better than Schwab, as demonstrated by the nearly $400 billion in net new assets brought to the company by clients since the beginning of 2007, excluding significant one-time flows. Net new assets totaled approximately $15 billion in the third quarter alone, despite ultra-low interest rates and a choppy equity market. Total client assets equaled $1.47 trillion at month-end September, up 8% from last year. We ended September serving 7.9 million active brokerage accounts, 665,000 bank accounts, and 1.5 million retirement plan participants."
CFO Joe Martinetto noted, "Our diversified business model enabled us to grow revenues during the third quarter even as interest rates declined somewhat during the period. Although our trading revenue declined by 24% from year-earlier levels as a result of our improved pricing and the environment's effect on client activity, our net interest revenue rose by 31% over the year-earlier total while our net interest margin remained relatively flat. Our asset management and administration fees also showed year-over-year improvement in the third quarter  for the first time in two years  through higher client balances in Mutual Fund OneSource and advisory programs such as Schwab Managed Portfolios, as well as further easing in money market fund fee waivers. Overall, our third quarter revenue growth represents the first year-over-year increase since the second quarter of 2008."
"Our business model also enables us to grow earnings power and further solidify our balance sheet without a rising interest rate environment", Mr. Martinetto added. "With ongoing expense discipline helping to ensure that our spending remains in line with planned levels, our third quarter net income reached $218 million, prior to the inclusion of the two charges we announced previously. This improved operating performance helps support a growing capital position that in turn enables the company to keep pace with the needs of our growing client base. Stockholders' equity totaled $6.0 billion as of month-end September 2010, up 22% from $4.9 billion a year ago."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Other Institutional Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q3_2010_schedule.xls
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 7.9 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 665,000 banking accounts, and $1.47 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Named Highest in Investor Satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through its Advisor Services division. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
.
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2010 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 


