FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20111017160203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 17, 2011, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $220 million for the third quarter of 2011, up 77% from $124 million for the year-earlier period. The company's third quarter 2010 net income was $218 million prior to the inclusion of certain charges relating to its money market mutual funds and affinity credit card program. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $701 million, up 109% year-over-year. Schwab's year-to-date 2010 net income was $555 million prior to the inclusion of charges for the items noted above and the settlement of a civil class action lawsuit relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 17, 2011
 
 
President and CEO Walt Bettinger said, "Our unique combination of full-service, high-value brokerage continues to perform well and deliver growth despite a difficult economic environment. Although the environment weakened further during the third quarter, our clients stayed with their long-term investing plans. Their cash holdings at Schwab remained close to pre-crisis levels and they were consistently net purchasers of securities. Our full service capabilities were in demand during the recent quarter as enrollments in our advisory solutions continued at a strong pace. We ended September with a total of 2.4 million accounts at Schwab either enrolled in retail advisory offerings or under the guidance of an independent advisor, an increase of 153,000 over September 2010. During the quarter, we introduced new and enhanced features in our StreetSmart Edge platform for our active trader clients, and executed a record 1,005,000 trades on a single day in August during the height of recent market volatility. We also handled a high volume of branch, phone and website interactions during the quarter. For example, our systems processed over 68 million log-ins to Schwab.com during the period, a 17% year-over-year increase, while retaining our #1 spot in the respected Keynote measurements for website speed. Net new assets totaled $86.0 billion for the third quarter  excluding the optionsXpress acquisition and major Clearing inflows, core net new assets totaled $17.6 billion, up 21% from last year. Clients opened 191,000 new brokerage accounts during the period, up 14%, and we ended the quarter with 8.5 million active brokerage accounts,
769,000 banking accounts, and 1.46 million retirement plan participants. Client assets totaled $1.58 trillion at month-end September, up 7%."
"Given the weakened environment, we'll respond appropriately on the expense side while remaining true to our long-term strategy," Mr. Bettinger continued. "We recognize that effective expense discipline remains key to our ability to balance near-term profitability with investing in our clients to enhance their service experience and sustain our growth. Our ongoing willingness to make appropriate trade-off decisions helped us to deliver year-to-date revenue and operating income growth of 15% and 27%, respectively. At the same time, we are pushing forward with initiatives that will expand our non rate-sensitive revenues, such as our recent acquisitions of Windhaven and optionsXpress, as well as the development of an integrated technology platform for independent advisors and a new index-based 401(k) offering. Overall, we believe that disciplined, yet sustained, investment in our growing client base is the best path to absorb and offset the environmental pressure we face."
CFO Joe Martinetto added, "We guard Schwab's financial stability and flexibility by following our philosophy of near-term profitability / long-term value creation throughout market cycles. By applying the same rigor to managing credit and interest rate risk across all environments, we can keep the firm focused on serving our clients rather than getting pulled off course by financial dislocations. Our continued success with clients and our diversified revenue streams enabled us to keep revenues essentially flat sequentially  trading revenues rose by 21% over the second quarter, and our expanding client base limited the decline in net interest revenue to 2%. Asset management and administration fees declined by 7% sequentially due to lower equity markets and further deterioration in short-term rates, which pushed money market fund fee waivers up to $160 million from $128 million in the prior quarter. With our ongoing expense discipline helping us to achieve a 30.5% pre-tax profit margin in the third quarter, our financial performance remains where we'd expect it to be given the environment. We have a healthy balance sheet with a growing capital base, and we remain well positioned to continue delivering strong near-term profitability while investing for future growth, even if the current rate environment persists for an extended period."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q3_2011_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's expansion of non rate-sensitive revenues, development and launch of new products, services and capabilities, growing capital base and financial performance. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and achieve the expected benefits; develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner; general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; capital needs; level of expenses; adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; the adverse impact of financial reform legislation and related regulations; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2011.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.5 million active brokerage accounts, 1.46 million corporate retirement plan participants, 769,000 banking accounts, and $1.58 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.


