FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20110415171056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 15, 2011, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $243 million for the first quarter of 2011, up from $6 million for the first quarter of 2010. The company's first quarter 2011 net income was 84% higher than the $132 million earned in the year-earlier period excluding certain charges relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund and the company's affinity credit card program.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 15, 2011
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "Although still choppy, the environment is improving and investors are actively engaged with us across all our businesses. Recent data shows that our economy is growing and adding jobs again, the unemployment rate is beginning to recover, and leading indicators are rising. The equity markets are responding, with the major indices rising by approximately 5% during the first quarter. Our clients are working with us to ensure they are participating in the markets appropriately  they have now reduced the percentage of their assets at Schwab held in cash to pre-crisis levels. At the same time, investors are faced with navigating ongoing challenges  including geopolitical turmoil, vacillating energy prices, and the aftermath of major natural disasters  highlighting the importance of the diverse full-service solutions and advice we provide. Overall, approximately $800 billion of the client assets currently at Schwab are either enrolled in one of our advisory offerings or under the guidance of an independent advisor, up 16% from a year ago."
 
N/M Not meaningful
CEO Walt Bettinger commented, "Overall, we've had a quality start to 2011 from both a financial and client perspective. Our first quarter earnings reflected the operating leverage inherent in our business model, and our metrics remained strong. New brokerage account openings totaled 224,000, net new assets totaled $25.1 billion excluding a large clearing outflow, and total client assets reached a record $1.65 trillion at month-end March, up 10% from a year ago. We now serve 8.1 million active brokerage accounts, 719,000 banking accounts, and 1.44 million retirement plan participants."
"As a growth-oriented company, we are continuing our investment in clients during 2011 to help sustain long-term revenue growth," Mr. Bettinger continued. "We plan to increase our 2011 spending on client-related initiatives by nearly 40% over 2010 to help us significantly improve our service in areas like fixed-income, global investing, mobile and tablet solutions, and advisor-focused technology, as well as to advance our index-and-ETF-based 401(k) and Independent Branch Services initiatives. Already this year, we've launched our new StreetSmart Edge trading platform, introduced an ETF Select List, and reached an agreement to acquire optionsXpress so that we can include their highly-regarded options and futures trading capabilities as part of our offerings for investors who trade more actively."
CFO Joe Martinetto added, "Our diversified revenue streams and ongoing expense discipline are helping to deliver improved financial performance even in a flat short-term interest rate environment. During the first quarter, the Fed Funds target remained unchanged at 0  0.25%, but the sustained growth in our client base helped each of our three major sources of revenue  net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and trading revenue  once again increase on both a sequential and year-over-year basis, with the annual increases reaching 28%, 20%, and 15%, respectively. Our 7% year-over-year expense growth  after adjusting the first quarter of 2010 for certain charges  was in line with our more aggressive investment plan for 2011. Our pre-tax profit margin of 32.6% was the highest in nine quarters, placing the firm's performance right where we'd expect to be given the environment and client activity. Our ongoing success with clients keeps us well positioned to drive improved financial performance in the months ahead to the extent short-term interest rates remain flat, and to drive significantly improved performance should rates begin to increase."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
 
Advisor Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q1_2011_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's investment in client-related initiatives and financial performance. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; choices made by the company in managing its client-related initiatives; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; the unknown costs of complying with new regulations emerging from recent financial reform legislation; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2010.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.1 million client brokerage accounts, 1.44 million corporate retirement plan participants, 719,000 banking accounts, and $1.65 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


