FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20110718153658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 18, 2011, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $238 million for the second quarter of 2011, up from $205 million for the second quarter of 2010. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, the company's net income was $481 million, which was 43% higher than the $337 million earned in the year-earlier period excluding certain charges relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund and the company's affinity credit card program.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 18, 2011
 
CEO Walt Bettinger commented, "Our valued clients are showing a resiliency in this environment that bodes well for the future. Although the economic recovery is progressing slower than hoped, clients remain solidly engaged with their investments, as cash holdings at Schwab have declined to pre-crisis levels. While trading activity is relatively soft, our diverse suite of investment products and services is propelling our ongoing growth, as clients increasingly opt to enroll in our advisory solutions. Client assets enrolled in Schwab retail advisory offerings increased to $113 billion at month-end June, up 20% year-over-year. Adding in assets under the guidance of an independent fee-based advisor brings total advised assets at quarter-end to $811 billion, up 17%. Overall, we ended June serving 8.1 million active brokerage accounts, 745,000 banking accounts and 1.44 million retirement plan participants. Despite a challenging environment, net new assets totaled $15.4 billion for the second quarter, up 10% from the second quarter of 2010 after adjusting for a large clearing outflow last year, and total client assets reached $1.66 trillion at quarter-end, up 22% from a year ago."
"We are on the right course," Mr. Bettinger added. "We continue to view this as exactly the right time to make long-term investments in our clients with new products and services that will serve them better and sustain our growth. Consistent with our ongoing efforts to help clients manage their finances when and how they choose, we now offer a broad array of mobile investing, banking and deposit capabilities as part of the integrated brokerage and banking services available to iPhone and Android smartphone users. In addition, over 300,000 clients are already using Schwab's online portfolio performance reporting capabilities, which were announced earlier this year. For independent advisors, we have enhanced our Business Consulting Services, and we are developing an integrated technology platform to be unveiled at
our upcoming IMPACT meeting this fall. Other initiatives underway include our recently announced global investing capabilities, a new online portal for prospective clients, new retirement income planning tools and content, an ETF education center, enhanced fixed income services, and, of course, our acquisition of optionsXpress, which remains on track for a third quarter close. Importantly, our ability to make the trade-off decisions necessary to balance significant investment in our clients with current profitability helped us leverage 10% second quarter revenue growth into 16% earnings growth."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "We continue to operate with a high degree of financial stability and flexibility. With nearly $7 billion in stockholders' equity and a healthy balance sheet that reflects our rigorous approach to credit risk and capital management, we can stay focused on serving the needs of our growing client base regardless of the operating environment. At the same time, our diversified revenue streams and expense discipline make it possible for the company to deliver solid revenue and earnings performance despite economic and market choppiness. The second quarter was marked by lower interest rates, volatile equity markets, and the beginning of a seasonal summer slowdown in client trading, yet our ongoing success with clients allowed us to stay on track with our financial expectations. Net interest revenue rose between the first and second quarters and asset management and administration fees were unchanged despite higher levels of money fund fee waivers, enabling the company to keep overall revenues nearly flat sequentially even as trading revenue declined by 15%. By sticking to our spending plan, we were able to deliver a pre-tax profit margin in excess of 32% for the second consecutive quarter. We've passed the mid-year mark about where we'd expect to be given the environment, and while we remain well positioned for significantly improved performance when rates increase, we are continuing our investment in clients to drive the future growth of the business."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
Other Institutional Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iPhone is a registered trademark of Apple Inc.
Android is a trademark of Google Inc.
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q2_2011_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's development and launch of new products, services and capabilities, the acquisition of optionsXpress and financial performance. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner; the timing and ability of the company and optionsXpress to satisfy the closing conditions in the merger agreement; general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; the unknown costs of complying with new regulations emerging from recent financial reform legislation; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2011.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.1 million client brokerage accounts, 1.44 million corporate retirement plan participants, 745,000 banking accounts, and $1.66 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 


