FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20110118123943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 18, 2011, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $119 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, down 27% from $164 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. Prior to the inclusion of charges relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund, Schwab's fourth quarter net income was $218 million, up 33% over the year ago period. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the company's net income was $454 million, down 42% from the year-earlier period. The company's 2010 net income prior to the inclusion of charges relating to YieldPlus and other previously disclosed matters totaled $775 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 18, 2011
Chairman Charles Schwab said, "I'm proud of the progress we've made in building a model of full-service investing and brokerage that goes beyond serving the privileged few to ensure that high-quality help and advice is available to any investor seeking to build a better financial future. We currently serve a record $1.57 trillion in client assets, which represents an 8% compound annual growth rate since 2000  a testament to the appeal of our approach. Schwab's share of the investable assets in the U.S. is growing and the future looks bright. We enter 2011 with an expanded range of products and services and enhanced value for our clients."
 
CEO Walt Bettinger commented, "Our business momentum continues, with $11.4 billion in net new assets for December alone, and we're demonstrating significantly improved financial performance, with fourth quarter revenues up 14% over year-earlier levels and profits up solidly after adjusting for charges. With the worst of the economic crisis behind us, our focus shifted in 2010 to increasing our investment to drive growth, while at the same time improving profitability regardless of any recovery in short-term interest rates. We nearly doubled our spending on client-related initiatives last year to $130 million, with completed initiatives including an ETF-based advice program, expanded fixed income offerings, and integrated mobile applications for brokerage and banking."
"We believe the importance of sustained investment in our clients is reflected in the strength of our metrics," Mr. Bettinger continued. "New brokerage account openings rose by 5% in 2010 and exceeded 750,000 for the fourth consecutive year, net new assets totaled $78.1 billion excluding significant one-time flows, down from 2009 due to the
environment, but once again exceeding the pace reported by any other firm, and total client assets were up 11% year-over- year. This continued growth in our client base  along with ongoing recovery in the equity markets  enabled us to rebound from a 19% decline in revenues during 2009 to a 1% increase in 2010, despite absorbing over $200 million in additional money fund management fee waivers. As we planned, rising revenues combined with our expense discipline enabled us to deliver improving profit margins during the year  prior to charges, our fourth quarter pre-tax profit margin was 9 percentage points higher than the first quarter trough. Our commitment to disciplined, profitable growth across all market cycles is unwavering, and we recognize that growth is only possible if we continue to invest in our clients."
CFO Joe Martinetto added, "Our financial priorities remain straightforward  sustain a healthy balance sheet, support continued growth in our businesses, and deliver improving profitability as market headwinds abate. Our asset quality remains extremely high with limited credit-related losses. In addition, we expanded stockholders' equity by 22% during 2010 to $6.2 billion, and we ended the year with approximately $1.1 billion in available cash and liquid investments at the parent level. Our full-year 2010 revenues and expenses  setting aside charges  were right in line with our expectations given the environment. We were also encouraged to see sequential improvement across all three of our major sources of revenue  net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and trading revenue  in the fourth quarter, only the second such occurrence since the end of 2007. We remain convinced that our diversified business model will enable us to deliver improving revenues and profitability as we go forward even if short-term rates remain at current levels."
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. iPhone is a trademark of Apple Inc.
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q4_2010_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's revenues and profitability. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; unanticipated adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; the unknown costs of complying with new regulations emerging from recent financial reform legislation; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2010.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.0 million client brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 690,000 banking accounts, and $1.57 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
(a)
WorldPoints is a registered trademark of FIA Card Services, N.A.;
(b)
Visa is a registered trademark of Visa International Service Association.
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2010 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


