FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20120801143953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On August 1, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing the commencement of a private offer to certain eligible holders of its outstanding 4.950% Senior Notes due 2014 to exchange those notes for new Senior Notes due 2022 and cash. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Contacts:
 
The Charles Schwab Corporation (the "Company") announced today the commencement of an offer to certain eligible holders of its outstanding 4.950% senior notes due 2014 (CUSIP No. 808513AC9) ("Old Notes") to exchange the Old Notes for new senior notes due 2022 ("New Notes") and cash ("Exchange Offer"). A summary of certain key terms of the Exchange Offer is attached.
SAN FRANCISCO, August 1, 2012-
The Exchange Offer is being conducted by the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in a confidential offering memorandum, dated August 1, 2012 ("Confidential Offering Memorandum"), and related letter of transmittal. The Exchange Offer is only extended, and copies of the offering documents will only be made available, to a holder of the Old Notes that has certified its status as (1) a "Qualified Institutional Buyer" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act") or (2) a person outside the United States who is not a "U.S. person" as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act (each, an "Eligible Holder").
 
1   To be paid in $1,000 principal amount of New Notes and cash per $1,000 principal amount of Old Notes accepted for exchange by the Company. Hypothetical Total Exchange Price is calculated based on the yield on the Reference U.S. Treasury for the Old Notes as of 11:00 a.m. on July 31, 2012. Hypothetical Total Exchange Price is shown for illustrative purposes only. The actual Total Exchange Price will be determined on the Price Determination Date (as defined herein). The Company makes no representation with respect to the actual consideration that may be paid and such amounts may be greater or less than those shown in the above table depending on the yield on the Reference U.S. Treasury for the Old Notes as of the Price Determination Date.
2   Does not reflect accrued and unpaid interest.
Documents relating to the Exchange Offer will only be distributed to holders of the Old Notes that complete and return a letter of eligibility confirming that they are Eligible Holders. Holders of the Old Notes that desire a copy of the eligibility letter may contact the information agent for the Exchange Offer, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, by calling (866) 488-1500 (toll-free) or (212) 430-3774.
This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. The Exchange Offer is being made solely by the Confidential Offering Memorandum and related letter of transmittal and only to such persons and in such jurisdictions as is permitted under applicable law.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Exchange Offer and whether or not the Company will consummate the Exchange Offer. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


