FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20120717144536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the second quarter of 2012 was $275 million, up 41% from $195 million for the first quarter of 2012, and up 16% from $238 million for the second quarter of 2011. Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2012 was $470 million, down 2% from the year-earlier period. The company's financial results for both the second quarter and first half of 2012 include a pre-tax gain of $70 million, or approximately $44 million after-tax, relating to the previously disclosed resolution of a vendor dispute.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 17, 2012
 
CEO and President Walt Bettinger commented, "Our through clients' eyes' strategy continues to prove itself and deliver growth as it resonates with investors in all economic environments. While the economy and financial markets faced heightened challenges during the second quarter, demand for our full-service capabilities remained strong  we ended the quarter with 2.5 million accounts at Schwab that were either enrolled in one of our advisory offerings or under the guidance of an independent advisor, up 9% year-over-year. Even as trading activity weakened during the period, we saw other signs of sustained client engagement, including $16.0 billion in net new assets, up 4% from a year ago; an ongoing pattern of net purchases of securities throughout the quarter; and cash holdings at Schwab that remained at pre-financial crisis levels. In addition, clients opened 221,000 new brokerage accounts during the second quarter, up 8% year-over-year. We ended the quarter with 8.7 million active brokerage accounts, 822,000 banking accounts, and $1.80 trillion in total client assets, up 7, 10, and 9%, respectively, over June 2011."
Mr. Bettinger added, "We're proud that a growing number of clients trust us to help them reach their financial goals, and we believe our commitment to sustained investment in our client base is essential to reinforcing that trust and supporting our long-term expansion. That investment is always balanced with our emphasis on strong near-term profitability. Our ongoing expense discipline helped the company to move forward with our key 2012 client initiatives during the second quarter and still deliver a pre-tax profit margin of nearly 30% excluding the one-time vendor payment."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "Our second quarter financial performance benefited from the company's diversified revenue streams as well as our growing client base and expense discipline. Environmental headwinds picked up yet again during the quarter, including further declines in long-term interest rates. While trading revenue slowed under these conditions, asset management and administration fees and net interest revenue both increased sequentially, by 2% and 6%, respectively. As a result, our second quarter results included 1% sequential growth for those three major revenue lines combined. With our expenses staying within planned levels, we were able to achieve an 18% increase in net income from the first quarter even before factoring in the vendor payment."
Mr. Martinetto concluded, "During the second quarter we took advantage of market conditions to further strengthen our operating flexibility via a second preferred stock offering, which followed our first-ever preferred offering during January 2012. Completing these offerings leaves us with nearly $900 million of this cost-effective, non-dilutive capital as part of our funding mix. With our healthy financial performance, balance sheet and capital base, Schwab is ready to continue its profitable growth in the months ahead."
Business highlights for the second quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, the Apple logo, iPad, and iPhone are trademarks of Apple Inc. registered in the U.S. and other countries. Android is a trademark of Google Inc.
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q2_2012_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company's growth and profitability. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; competitive pressures on rates and fees; general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the level of client assets,
including cash balances; the company's ability to monetize client assets; the company's ability to develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner; capital needs and management; level of expenses; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenues, expenses and pre-tax margins; the effect of adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; any adverse impact of financial reform legislation and related regulations; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2012.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.7 million client brokerage accounts, 1.52 million corporate retirement plan participants, 822,000 banking accounts, and $1.80 trillion in client assets. The company was ranked "Highest in Investor Satisfaction with Self-Directed Services" in the 2012 U.S. Self-Directed Investor Satisfaction Study
SM
from J.D. Power and Associates. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 


