FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20120313160141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective March 7, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation (the "Company") entered into a Separation Agreement, General Release and Waiver of Claims (the "Agreement") with Mr. Benjamin L. Brigeman in connection with his decision to step down as Executive Vice PresidentInvestor Services. The Agreement provides for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The terms of the Agreement are more fully described in the Separation Agreement, General Release and Waiver of Claims, which is included as Exhibit 10.348 to this Current Report on Form 8K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.348
This Separation Agreement, General Release and Waiver of Claims ("Agreement") is entered into by and between Benjamin Brigeman ("Mr. Brigeman"), on the one hand, and The Charles Schwab Corporation and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., their respective affiliates and the predecessors, successors and assigns of each of the foregoing (collectively "Schwab" or the "Company"), on the other hand, dated as of the date by which both parties have executed the Agreement (the "Execution Date") and effective upon the expiration of the Revocation Period described in Paragraph 25 (g), below ("Effective Date"). Together, Mr. Brigeman and the Company shall be referred to herein as "the Parties."
, Mr. Brigeman will step down from his position as Executive Vice-President, Schwab Investor Services, effective February 15, 2012 and the employment relationship will end effective August 15, 2012.
WHEREAS
, the Parties now desire to definitively resolve, fully and finally, all differences, disputes and claims Mr. Brigeman might have against the Company and anyone connected with it through and including the Execution Date, including, but not limited to, those arising out of or relating to Mr. Brigeman's employment relationship with Schwab and the termination thereof.
WHEREAS
in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and Mr. Brigeman hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1. . Mr. Brigeman will step down as a Schwab Officer, from any and all Schwab directorships he holds, and from the Operating Council effective as of February 15, 2012 and will be deemed to have resigned his employment as of August 15, 2012, his last day of actual work ("Separation Date"). Mr. Brigeman acknowledges and agrees that with the exception of his accrued vacation or floating holidays and his paychecks for the pay periods after he signs this Agreement through August 15, 2012, he has received all earned wages and compensation due to him as a result of his employment as Executive Vice President, Schwab Investor Services with, and services as an officer and director of, the Company.
Resignation of Positions
2. Subject to and upon satisfaction by Mr. Brigeman of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, Schwab agrees to provide Mr. Brigeman the following consideration, to which he is not otherwise entitled:
Consideration.
 
 
 
3. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges that Schwab is under no obligation to provide the consideration to him pursuant to Paragraph 2 and will do so only subject to his agreement to, and compliance with, the terms of this Agreement. Mr. Brigeman agrees that the amount and promises set forth in Paragraph 2 shall constitute the entire consideration provided to him under this Agreement, and that Mr. Brigeman shall not seek any further compensation or other consideration for any other claimed damage, costs, or attorneys'
Entire Consideration.
 
fees in connection with the matters encompassed in this Agreement. Mr. Brigeman expressly agrees that he waives any such rights or benefits in exchange for the rights and benefits provided under this Agreement. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges and agrees that he is not eligible for or entitled to any severance benefits under The Charles Schwab Severance Pay Plan or under any other severance or termination pay or benefits arrangement with Schwab.
4. If Mr. Brigeman executes (and does not revoke) the Supplemental Waiver and Release Agreement attached as Exhibit B to the Agreement on or within five (5) business days after his Separation Date, Schwab will provide additional consideration as follows: Schwab will pay Mr. Brigeman a lump sum payment of Forty-Seven Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-Five Dollars and Forty-Five Cents ($47,675.45), less usual and customary taxes, withholding and authorized deductions each month for twelve consecutive months beginning on August 31, 2012 through July 31, 2013 for a total of $572,105.44 ("Additional Consideration").
Additional Consideration.
5. Mr. Brigeman is not eligible for any other benefits or payments not specifically provided for in this Agreement. Upon reaching the Separation Date, in accordance with federal and state regulations, Mr. Brigeman will be offered the opportunity to continue receiving certain insured group benefit coverage, such as medical benefits, for a period of time not to exceed eighteen (18) additional months, provided Mr. Brigeman pays the appropriate premiums for the coverage and returns the necessary paperwork.
No Other Employee Benefits.
6. Mr. Brigeman's active participation in The SchwabPlan Retirement Savings & Investment Plan shall cease as of August 15, 2012. Mr. Brigeman will not receive matching contributions or any discretionary profit sharing for 2012. Mr. Brigeman's vested interest in Company contributions (other than matching contributions, which are automatically fully vested) will be determined based on his service through the Separation Date.
Retirement Savings and Investment Plan.
7. Mr. Brigeman will continue to vest in any stock options previously granted until his Separation Date, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Plan documents. Under the provisions of The Charles Schwab Corporation stock incentive plans, Mr. Brigeman retains the right to exercise vested options for a specific period of time after his Separation Date. Any stock options that are not vested as of his Separation Date are immediately canceled. The applicable Stock Option Agreement(s) and Plan documents govern the vesting and exercising of stock options. Mr. Brigeman will continue to vest in any performance-based restricted stock units granted to him until the Separation Date in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Plan documents. Performance-based restricted stock units not vested as of Mr. Brigeman's Separation Date will be forfeited as provided by the applicable Plan documents. The Award Agreement(s) and Plan documents govern the performance-based restricted stock units.
The Charles Schwab Corporation Stock Incentive Plans.
8. Each of the payments to be made under Paragraph 2(ii) and Paragraph 4 are designated as separate payments for Internal Revenue Code Section 409A purposes. Mr. Brigeman understands and agrees that Schwab is providing no tax or legal advice,
Tax Treatment.
 
and makes no representations regarding tax obligations or consequences, if any, related to any part of this Agreement. Mr. Brigeman further agrees that he will assume any such tax obligations or consequences that may arise from this Agreement, and he shall not seek any indemnification from Schwab in this regard. Mr. Brigeman further agrees to indemnify and hold Schwab harmless from any claims, demands, deficiencies, levies, assessments, executions, judgments, penalties, taxes, attorneys' fees or recoveries by any governmental entity against Schwab for any failure by Mr. Brigeman to pay taxes due and owing, if any, as a result of any payments under this Agreement.
9. Mr. Brigeman understands and agrees that if he accepts a position as an employee, acts as an independent contractor, consultant or sole proprietor, or acts as an officer, director, or partner in another public or privately held company at any time prior to August 15, 2012, he will notify Jay Allen, EVP, Human Resources (xxx) xxx-xxxx immediately. If Mr. Brigeman accepts any such position or otherwise begins to act in any such capacity with a company or entity that is a Competitor Business (as set forth in Exhibit A) then Mr. Brigeman's Separation Date will be deemed to be the earlier of August 15, 2012 or the next business day following his acceptance of such position, and his salary and benefits as an active employee shall cease as of such date. Mr. Brigeman will then be eligible to receive payments set forth under Paragraphs 2(ii) and 4, less usual and customary taxes, withholding and authorized deductions, on the dates set forth therein, provided he meets any eligibility requirements applicable to such payments hereunder. If Mr. Brigeman accepts any such position or otherwise begins to act in any capacity a Competitor Business at any time prior to twelve (12) months from his Separation Date, his Separation Date will be deemed to be the earlier of August 15, 2012 or the next business day following his acceptance of such position and all remaining payments (including the Additional Consideration) and benefits under this Agreement shall cease immediately. In addition, any payments made pursuant to Paragraph 2(ii) will be required to be repaid to Schwab in their entirety because Mr. Brigeman has not earned the payments until twelve (12) months from his Separation Date (if it has not already occurred), as long as he has not worked for a Competitor Business. If Mr. Brigeman undertakes any activities in violation of this paragraph 9, or this Agreement, his Separation Date will be accelerated immediately and all payments and benefits from the Company to Mr. Brigeman under this Agreement (and the Additional Consideration) shall cease as of the new Separation Date.
Early Termination Date.
not
with
10. Mr. Brigeman represents that as of the Execution Date, he has not filed any action, claim, charge, or complaint against Schwab or any other Releasee identified in Paragraph 11 below, with any local, state, or federal agency, self-regulatory organization ("SRO"), or court and that he will not make such a filing at any time hereafter based upon any events or omissions occurring prior to and up to the Execution Date. In the event that any agency or court assumes jurisdiction of any lawsuit, claim, charge or complaint, or purports to bring any legal or regulatory proceedings against Schwab or any other Releasee identified in Paragraph 11 below on Mr. Brigeman's behalf, he promptly will request that the agency, SRO, or court withdraw from or dismiss the lawsuit, claim, charge, or complaint with prejudice, and in any event, waives his right to any form of recovery or relief in any such proceedings, including legal fees.
No Filings.
 
11. . Mr. Brigeman  for himself and for his heirs, representatives, attorneys, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns  releases Schwab, and all of its affiliates, subsidiaries, divisions, parent corporations, and stockholders, officers, directors, partners, servants, agents, employees, representatives, attorneys, employee welfare and retirement plans and the respective plan administrators and fiduciaries, past, present, and future, all persons acting under, by, through, or in concert with any of them, and each of them (all of whom are hereinafter referred to as "Releasees"), from any and all actions, causes of action, grievances, obligations, costs, expenses, damages, losses, claims, liabilities, suits, debts, demands, and benefits (including attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred), of whatever character, in law or in equity, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, matured or unmatured, of any kind or nature whatsoever, based on any act, omission, event, occurrence, or nonoccurrence from the beginning of time up to and including the Execution Date of this Agreement, including but not limited to any claims or causes of action arising out of or in any way relating to Mr. Brigeman's employment relationship with Schwab or any other Releasee.
Complete Release by Mr. Brigeman
This release of claims includes, but is not limited to, claims for breach of any implied or express contract or covenant; claims for promissory estoppel; claims of entitlement to any pay (other than the payments promised in Paragraph 2); claims of wrongful denial of insurance and employee benefits, or any claims for wrongful termination, public policy violations, defamation, invasion of privacy, fraud, misrepresentation, unfair business practices, emotional distress or other common law or tort matters; claims of harassment, retaliation or discrimination under federal, state, or local law; claims based on any federal, state or other governmental statute, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended, the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act, the Genetic Information and Discrimination Act, the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended, the Family and Medical Leave Act, as amended, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, and any all related federal and state laws, and the state constitution. It is expressly understood by Mr. Brigeman that among the various rights and claims being waived by Mr. Brigeman in this Agreement are those for age discrimination arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. sec. 621, ), as amended. Mr. Brigeman understands and agrees that, notwithstanding any provisions and covenants in this Paragraph, nothing in this Agreement is intended to constitute an unlawful release or waiver of any of his rights under any laws and/or to prevent, impede, or interfere with his ability and/or right to challenge the validity of this release. This paragraph is not intended to limit Mr. Brigeman from pursuing an action for the sole purpose of enforcing this Agreement.
et seq.
12. For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, Mr. Brigeman expressly acknowledges that the releases he gives in this Agreement are intended to include, without limitation, claims that he did not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of the effective date of this Agreement, regardless of whether the knowledge of such claims, or the facts upon which they might be based, would materially have affected the settlement of this matter; and that the consideration given under the Agreement was
Release of Unknown Claims.
 
also for the release of those claims and contemplates the extinguishment of any such unknown claims. In making this waiver, Mr. Brigeman acknowledges that he may hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those which he now believes to be true with respect to the subject matter released herein, but agrees that he has taken that possibility into account in reaching this Agreement and that, notwithstanding the discovery or existence of any such additional or different facts, Mr. Brigeman fully, finally, and forever settles and releases any and all such claims.
13. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties, and their heirs, representatives, executors, administrators, successors, insurers, and assigns, and shall inure to the administrators, predecessors, successors, and assignees of each of the Parties.
Successors.
14. Nothing in this Agreement (including the release contained herein) shall be construed to limit Mr. Brigeman's right to indemnification or contribution pursuant to Delaware or California law or the Company's bylaws arising from actions taken in the scope of his employment with the Company.
Indemnification.
15. The Parties will bear their own respective costs and fees, including attorney's fees, incurred in connection with negotiation and execution of this Agreement.
No Attorney's Fees and Costs.
16. Mr. Brigeman agrees that he will not make any disparaging or defamatory statements, either orally or in writing (and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the term "writing" includes but is not limited to electronic communications) to any third party (a) concerning Schwab or any Releasee, (b) concerning its or their officers, directors, employees or agents, (c) concerning its or their services, products, offerings, quantitative or other research, or methods of communicating such services, products or offerings, or its or their technology, operations processes, methods of doing business, or employment practices, or (d) that may tend to disrupt, impair, or otherwise interfere with the Schwab's or any Releasee's business, reputation, or relationships with its employees, clients, agents, representatives, or vendors. Mr. Brigeman further agrees to refrain from acting as a source (attributable or otherwise) or engaging in any formal or informal dialogue with the press or media regarding his experiences with or at the Company or any Releasee, or its or their past or present directors, officers, or employees, or regarding any information he may have acquired (first hand or otherwise) concerning operations, technology, marketing or advertising strategies or plans, financial performance, salary or incentive compensation practices, recruitment or retention strategies, employment practices, negotiation strategies, vendors, current or former employees, internal or external investigations, or internal policies and procedures of the Company or any Releasee. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to interfere with Mr. Brigeman's ability to provide truthful testimony pursuant to paragraph 17 below.
Non-Disparagement.
17. Mr. Brigeman agrees not to encourage or assist in any litigation against Schwab or any Releasee or provide testimony in any matter in which Schwab or any Releasee has an interest unless he is required by law to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Cooperation.
 
Mr. Brigeman agrees that he will cooperate fully with the Company or any Releasee, or any corporate affiliate of any Releasee (specifically including any attorneys retained by the Company or any of the Releasees) in connection with any pending or future matter (including but not limited to any audit, tax proceeding, litigation, arbitration, external or internal investigation, or government proceeding) in which or to the extent the Company reasonably deems his cooperation necessary. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges and agrees that such cooperation may include, but shall in no way be limited to, being available for interviews with the Company or any of the Releasees, or any attorneys or agents retained by the Company or any of the Releasees, providing to the Company or any of the Releasees any documents in his possession or under his control relating to the matter, and providing sworn statements and/or testimony in connection with the matter. Mr. Brigeman agrees to appear and give testimony as a witness in any judicial, administrative, quasi-governmental, or investigatory proceeding as requested by the Company or any Releasee. Mr. Brigeman also agrees, upon request by the Company or any Releasee, to provide information that he learned during the course of the employment relationship with the Company. Mr. Brigeman further agrees to travel if necessary to give testimony in any regulatory proceeding, arbitration, or litigation. The Company will reimburse him for reasonable travel expenses (including reasonable out-of-pocket expenses) in accordance with the Company's travel expense policies then in effect. To the extent permitted by the respective matter, the Company or any Releasee, in good faith, will attempt to accommodate and minimize the disruption to Mr. Brigeman's post-Company employment obligations. In the event Mr. Brigeman provides a sworn statement or testimony, either as required by legal process or at the Company's or any Releasee's request, Mr. Brigeman agrees to do so in good faith and fully, accurately and truthfully, to the best of his ability. Mr. Brigeman agrees and understands that nothing in this Agreement is intended to prevent, impede, or interfere with his ability to respond to any inquiry or participate in any investigation or proceeding conducted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission ("EEOC"), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), any other self-regulatory organization, or any other federal or state governmental agency or regulatory authority. Mr. Brigeman further agrees to notify the Company promptly of any demand or legal process that seeks to cause him to disclose: confidential information about the Company or any Releasee, including any information covered by his Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation and Intellectual Property Ownership Agreement, and further agrees to cooperate fully with the Company or any Releasee if it decides to challenge the demand or legal process seeking such disclosure. If Mr. Brigeman is served with a subpoena, court order, or other legal process concerning any of the matters referenced above or in any proceeding in which the Company or any Releasee is a party or has an interest, he agrees to notify the Company within two (2) business days after receipt of such process and, in any event, no less than ten (10) business days in advance of any required appearance or production. Notice to be given under this provision to the Company or any Releasee shall be to: Jay Allen, EVP, Human Resources, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., 211 Main Street, SF211MN-201, San Francisco, CA 94105-1905.
18. Mr. Brigeman agrees that he remains bound by the Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation and Intellectual Property Ownership Agreement that he signed or electronically acknowledged as a condition of his employment. In exchange for the valuable
Confidential Information.
 
consideration offered herein, he agrees and reconfirms his obligation to abide by the Confidentiality, Non-Solicitation and Intellectual Property Ownership Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit C and is incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
19. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in Paragraphs 16, 17, and 18 are material inducements to the Company's willingness to enter into this Agreement and necessary to protect the good will, trade secrets, and confidential and proprietary information of the Company. Mr. Brigeman further acknowledges that the restrictions contained in these Paragraphs are reasonable in scope and duration, will not prevent him from earning a livelihood during the applicable period of restriction, are necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, and that any breach by Mr. Brigeman of any provision contained in Paragraphs 16, 17, or 18 will result in immediate irreparable injury to the Company for which a remedy at law will be inadequate. Accordingly, Mr. Brigeman acknowledges that the Company shall be entitled to seek permanent injunctive relief against him in the event of any breach or threatened breach by Mr. Brigeman of the provisions of Paragraphs 16, 17, or 18 in addition to any other remedy that may be available to the Company, whether at law or in equity. The provisions of Paragraphs 16, 17, and 18 shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect following the Separation Date. It is the intention of the Parties to this Agreement that the covenants and restrictions set forth in Paragraphs 16, 17, and 18 be given the broadest interpretation permitted by law.
Injunctive Relief.
20. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges that he will return by his Separation Date to Schwab any and all property, files, materials, records, manuals, written communications, or other items (including hard copy and electronic documents, disks, and files) that he received, obtained and/or created as part of his employment (excluding information Mr. Brigeman received about insured benefits, welfare plans, equity grants (including the plan under which those awards are granted), retirement plan information, payroll information regarding Mr. Brigeman, and special awards) or that are in his possession or control belonging to Schwab or any of the Releasees, including but not limited to company sponsored credit cards or calling cards, pagers, handheld devices, computer software or hardware (including iPads), keys, and identity badges. Mr. Brigeman agrees that in the event he later locates any such document or materials, he will return it to Schwab immediately.
Return of Confidential and Proprietary Information.
21. If Mr. Brigeman undertakes any activities in violation of Paragraphs 2 (ii), 9, 16, 17, or 18 or otherwise breaches any of his obligations under this Agreement, his Separation Date will be accelerated immediately and all payments and other benefits conferred under this Agreement (with the exception of his final paycheck and any accrued but unused vacation and floating holidays) shall cease; provided, however, that such breach by Mr. Brigeman and/or cessation of payments and benefits by the Company will not affect the validity or enforceability of the Parties' commitments under this Agreement (including but not limited to Mr. Brigeman's general release and waiver of claims contained herein).
Breach of Agreement.
22. Mr. Brigeman confirms that, as of the date he executes this Agreement, to the best of his knowledge, there is no commission or omission of any act by any
Company Policies.
 
employee or agent of the Company that constitutes, or might reasonably constitute, a violation of the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Compliance Manual, or the Company's legal obligations of which he is aware (or reasonably should have been aware), that has not already been brought to the Company's attention or that Mr. Brigeman can reasonably expect to have been brought to the Company's attention. Mr. Brigeman agrees that he will as promptly as reasonably possible notify the Company of any such acts or omissions to act that occurred during and relating to Mr. Brigeman's employment with the Company and or come to his attention after the date he executes this Agreement.
23. Mr. Brigeman agrees that he will direct all inquiries from prospective employers or others seeking verification of employment to the current EVP of Human Resources (presently, Jay Allen). Mr. Brigeman agrees that in the event he directs an inquiry to someone other than the current EVP of Human Resources to respond to requests for reference and employment verifications for Schwab, Schwab will not be liable for any disclosures made in response to such inquiries that deviate from the procedures set forth herein.
Employment Verification.
24. This Agreement has been approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Charles Schwab Corporation (the "Compensation Committee") and shall be effective upon the Effective Date.
Corporate Approvals.
25. Mr. Brigeman understands and agrees that he:
Agreement is Knowing and Voluntary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26. The Parties represent that they have discussed thoroughly all aspects of this Agreement with their respective attorneys, fully understand all of the provisions of the Agreement, and are voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
Full and Independent Knowledge.
27. The Parties acknowledge that, except as expressly set forth herein, no representations of any kind or character have been made to induce the execution of this Agreement.
No Representations.
28. Mr. Brigeman represents that he has not transferred or assigned, or purported to transfer or assign, any claim released by this Agreement. Mr. Brigeman further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each and all of the Releasees against any and all claims based upon, arising out of, or in any way connected with any such actual or purported transfer or assignment.
Ownership of Claims.
29. Mr. Brigeman acknowledges that the execution of this Agreement and the payment of consideration hereunder are not and shall not be construed in any way as an admission of wrongdoing or liability on the part of Schwab, or any other person or business entity. Mr. Brigeman further acknowledges that Schwab denies any and all such liability and denies it has engaged in any wrongful act.
Non-Admission of Liability.
30. Mr. Brigeman represents that he has no pending claim for any work-related injury, and that his is not aware of any existing injury that would give rise to such a claim, whether under applicable workers' compensation laws or otherwise. He further represents that he has been afforded all rights available to him under the Family Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, if applicable, and has not been retaliated in any manner for doing so. Mr. Brigeman understands that Schwab relied on this representation in entering into this Agreement with him.
Other Representations.
 
31. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted under the laws of the State of Ohio applicable to contracts made and to be performed within Ohio, without regard to its conflict of laws principles.
Governing Law.
32. Except with respect to judicial injunctive relief as provided in paragraph 19 above, any dispute or breach arising out of the interpretation or performance of this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration before a single arbitrator in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association in Cleveland, Ohio and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. With the exception of initial forum fees, the Company shall bear all costs imposed by the American Arbitration Association to administer the arbitration including arbitrator's fees. The parties shall be allowed to conduct such discovery as permitted by the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association or by the arbitrator. At the conclusion of arbitration, the arbitrator shall issue an award in writing setting forth the basis for the award. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding, and the Parties waive the right to trial de novo or appeal. Further, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable costs and attorney's fees. Excepted from this paragraph is a complaint with the EEOC, including a challenge to the validity of this Agreement under the law, to the extent such an exception is required by law and any claims required to be arbitrated with FINRA. Claims for unemployment insurance benefits and workers' compensation benefits shall be resolved pursuant to the claims procedures under applicable state laws. Claims for benefits under any ERISA-governed employee benefit plan(s) shall be resolved pursuant to claims procedures under such benefit plans.
Arbitration.
33. The failure of any Party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered a waiver thereof or deprive that party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.
Waiver.
34.
Miscellaneous.
a. Both parties have participated in the drafting of this Agreement. The language of all parts in this Agreement shall be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning, and not strictly for or against either party.
b. Should any provision in this Agreement be declared or determined to be illegal or invalid, the validity of the remaining parts, terms, or provisions shall not be affected thereby, and the illegal or invalid part, term, or provision shall be deemed not to be part of this Agreement, and all remaining provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.
c. This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the Parties and fully supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings, written or otherwise, between
 
the Parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement, except as specifically set forth herein.
d. The headings used herein are for reference only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
35. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, by facsimile or original signature, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
34. Notice to be given under this Agreement to Schwab shall be to Jay Allen, EVP, Human Resources, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., 211 Main Street, SF211MN-201, San Francisco, CA 94105-1905.
Notification.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES THE RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
 
 
Except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company, a Competitor Business will be defined as follows: 1) E*Trade Financial Corporation; E*Trade Financial Corporate Services, Inc.; E*Trade Access, Inc.; E*Trade Brokerage Holdings, Inc.; TD Ameritrade Holdings Co.; Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC; and Fidelity Investments Institutional Services Company, Inc.; 2) any other company that is a financial institution regulated or registered by the federal banking regulators, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or any equivalent state law that allows individuals or institutions to place or process orders for securities and/or other financial instruments (including, but not limited to banking functions and instruments) through any medium now known or later developed; or 3) any business that is determined in Schwab's sole and reasonable discretion to be competitive with the business activities of the Company or its affiliates or subsidiaries.
Benjamin Brigeman entered into a Separation Agreement, General Release and Waiver of Claims ("Agreement") with The Charles Schwab Corporation and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. ("Schwab").
Mr. Brigeman hereby acknowledges that:
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Agreement must be signed after the last day of Mr. Brigeman's employment on August 15, 2012 but no later than August 21, 2012.
 
CHARLES SCHWAB CONFIDENTIALITY, NONSOLICITATION, AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OWNERSHIP AGREEMENT 2008 (Simplified Confidentiality AgreementRev. 3/08)
Confirmation of Agreement to and Signature on Confidentiality, Nonsolicitation and Assignment Agreement.
This is your Confirmation of your electronic agreement to the Confidentiality, Nonsolicitation and Assignment Agreement. You may print this copy and record of our agreement and retain it for your records.
To PRINT this page, simply click the PRINT BUTTON on your browser.
Ben Brigeman
Employee:
Employee ID:
us\ben.brigeman
Employee Logon:
Employee Email:
(xxx) xxx-xxxx
Employee Telephone:
Walt Bettinger
Employee Manager:
06/03/2008 17:13:24 PM EST
Date of Electronic Signature:
my initial or continued at-will employment with Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., its parent company and/or its subsidiaries, affiliates, joint venturers, and successors (collectively, "Schwab"), and the compensation and other benefits I receive from Schwab, including my participation in bonus and incentive compensation plans for which I am eligible. Acknowledging the receipt and adequacy of this consideration, and intending to be legally bound, I agree as follows:
I AM ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT IN CONSIDERATION FOR
 
 
 
The scope of these obligations, and some of the possible consequences for breaching them, are described in more detail below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
List of family members and other relatives (identified by familial status) and individuals or entities to whom I provided financial services prior to joining Schwab:
click here to electronically inital Exhibit A
X
 
 
EXHIBIT B
California Labor Code Section 2870
 
 
 
 
click here to electronically inital Exhibit B
X
 
 
EXHIBIT C
Pre-Existing Intellectual Property Registrations:
click here to electronically inital Exhibit C
X
Signature
I represent that I am the individual indicated in the "Work Contact Information" section in the upper left hand corner of this screen, that I accessed this screen by logging in to the Schwab network and using my unique password, and that I have not shared my password with anyone.
By clicking "I Agree" below I am creating a binding contract with Schwab, just as enforceable as if it were a handwritten signature.


