FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20121015152331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 15, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $247 million, down 10% from $275 million for the second quarter of 2012, and up 12% from $220 million for the third quarter of 2011. Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 was $717 million, up 2% year-over-year. The company's third quarter and year-to-date financial results include a non-recurring state tax benefit of approximately $20 million. Schwab's year-to-date results also include an after-tax gain of approximately $44 million relating to the resolution of a vendor dispute, which was recorded in the second quarter.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 15, 2012
 
CEO and President Walt Bettinger commented, "Our clients remain resilient yet cautious in this challenging economic environment. They continue to be net purchasers of securities; their cash holdings at Schwab remain at pre-crisis levels; and while their trading activity this summer was muted, it's been consistent with our experience in prior presidential election years. The company's third quarter metrics were solid, including 198,000 new brokerage accounts, $2.8 billion in net new enrollments in our retail advisory offerings, and $21.7 billion in core net new assets. We ended the quarter with 8.7 million active brokerage accounts, and 844,000 banking accounts, up 3% and 10%, respectively, year-over-year. Also, retail advised balances and total client assets grew to $123.8 billion and a record $1.89 trillion at month-end September, increasing by 20% each."
"We know that this environment continues to impact our clients' confidence in making investment decisions, reinforcing the importance of sustained investment in our full-service model," Mr. Bettinger continued. "We came into 2012 expecting to complete and deliver a number of significant improvements in our client service capabilities during the year. We remain on track with every one of those initiatives, including the launches of our index-based 401(k) offering and independent branch model, the bolstering of our mortgage lending program, expanding and improving our global investing capabilities, adding to our mobile and tablet solutions, offering an integrated technology platform for independent advisors, and leveraging the strengths of optionsXpress and Compliance11 in our trading and designated
brokerage services. We believe Schwab's demonstrated commitment to finding a better way to serve investors is an important element of building client trust  trust that is reflected in our improved loyalty scores from individual investors, as well as our industry-leading scores from independent advisors."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "Our third quarter financial performance once again demonstrated the combined power of our growing client base, diversified revenue streams and ongoing expense discipline. Both trading and net interest revenues declined sequentially due to environmental factors, yet asset management and administration fees rose by 6% due to improved net money market fund yields, along with growth in other mutual fund balances and our advice programs. Additionally, by keeping our expenses within planned levels, we were able to maintain our pre-tax profit margin at approximately 30% while sustaining our investments in the client experience."
"We took two additional steps to strengthen our balance sheet during the third quarter," Mr. Martinetto added. "We redeemed all of our outstanding Trust Preferred Securities and the underlying 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes, which totaled $202 million, following the Federal Reserve's issuance of proposed rules that will phase out those securities' eligibility for regulatory capital treatment. We also completed a debt exchange offer that effectively replaced $256 million of our outstanding 4.95% Senior Notes due in 2014 for new 10-year Senior Notes at a reduced cost. We remain committed to sustaining the financial strength and flexibility needed to pursue profitable growth in all environments."
Business highlights for the third quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
Other Institutional Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iPad is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q3_2012_schedule.xls
Interim Business Update
The company also announced today that it has scheduled an Interim Business Update for institutional investors on Monday, November 5, 2012. This Update, which will be held via webcast, is part of an ongoing series designed to help the investment community keep abreast of recent developments and management's strategic focus. The program is scheduled to run from 8:00 a.m.  9:00 a.m. PT, 11:00 a.m.  12:00 p.m. ET. Mr. Bettinger and Mr. Martinetto will participate.
The Update will be accessible at:
http://schwabevents.com/corporation
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.7 million active brokerage accounts, 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, 844,000 banking accounts, and $1.89 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Note to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 


