FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20120416152008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 16, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $195 million for the first quarter of 2012, up 20% from $163 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, and down 20% from $243 million for the year-earlier quarter.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 16, 2012
 
President and CEO Walt Bettinger said, "The power of our through clients' eyes' strategy helped us deliver strong results in the first quarter. Our client metrics included $26.9 billion in core net new assets, the highest since the first quarter of 2008. Clients also opened 240,000 new brokerage accounts during the quarter, and net new enrollments in our retail advisory offerings totaled $2.7 billion, bringing overall advised balances to $118.4 billion at month-end March, up 7% from a year ago. We finished the quarter serving a record $1.83 trillion in total client assets, 8.6 million active brokerage accounts, 801,000 banking accounts, and 1.52 million corporate retirement plan participants."
"Both interest rates and equity market valuations picked up during the first quarter before declining thus far in April," Mr. Bettinger noted. "The improved first quarter environment and our ongoing success in building stronger client relationships helped revenues grow 7% sequentially, with increases in all three major categories. Our ongoing expense discipline limited sequential growth in costs to 2%, and our pre-tax profit margin improved by nearly 4 percentage points from the fourth quarter of 2011 to 26.3%."
Mr. Bettinger concluded, "Our momentum in expanding Schwab's client service capabilities continues unabated. We are leveraging last year's accelerated spending with a reduced but still significant project budget this year to drive a
 
Core net new assets exclude significant one-time flows, such as acquisitions or extraordinary mutual fund clearing transfers.
number of initiatives to completion and into clients' hands. Already in 2012, we've launched Schwab Index Advantage, our unique index-based 401(k) offering; bolstered our mortgage lending program with Quicken Loans as our new service provider; and added three new platforms to our integrated technology initiative for independent advisors. These are a few of the latest steps in Schwab's continuing tradition of finding a better way to serve investors  a tradition that helps our full-service, high-value brokerage model resonate with clients and supports individual investor loyalty scores that are the highest we've ever recorded."
CFO Joe Martinetto said, "Easing environmental headwinds immediately allow the ongoing growth in our client base to be reflected in the company's financial performance. First quarter 2012 asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue and trading revenue were 6, 10 and 4% higher, respectively, than the preceding period. Reflecting the company's operating leverage and earnings power, net income rose by 20%. Overall, revenues were right where we expected them to be given the environment, and our expenses are on track with our 2012 plan. By carefully balancing our spending against environmental conditions, we are poised to deliver both expanded client service capabilities and improving revenues and earnings throughout 2012 if interest rates at least stabilize."
"During the first quarter we took the opportunity to bolster our capital flexibility through a cost-effective, non-dilutive preferred stock offering," Mr. Martinetto noted. "We are positioned to support potentially strong balance sheet growth in 2012 as our client initiatives drive ongoing business momentum and we strive to optimize net interest revenue in a volatile environment."
Business highlights for the first quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
Other Institutional Services
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q1_2012_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the ongoing growth of the company's client base; the impact of the easing of environmental headwinds on the company's financial performance; the company's delivery of expanded client service capabilities and improving revenues and earnings; strong balance sheet growth; and net interest revenue. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; competitive pressures on rates and fees; general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the level of client assets, including cash balances; the company's ability to develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner; capital needs; level of expenses; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenues, expenses and pre-tax margins; the effect of adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; any adverse impact of financial reform legislation and related regulations; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2011.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.6 million active brokerage accounts, 1.52 million corporate retirement plan participants, 801,000 banking accounts, and $1.83 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 


