FILE:SCHW/SCHW-8K-20120118145913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 18, 2012, The Charles Schwab Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
Contacts:
 
 The Charles Schwab Corporation announced today that its net income was $163 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, up 37% from $119 million for the year-earlier period. The company's fourth quarter 2010 net income was $218 million prior to the inclusion of charges relating to the Schwab YieldPlus Fund. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the company's net income was $864 million, up 90% year-over-year. The company's 2010 net income prior to the inclusion of charges relating to YieldPlus and other previously disclosed matters totaled $775 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 18, 2012
 
President and CEO Walt Bettinger said, "Throughout 2011, we continued to successfully grow our business, deliver strong near-term profitability and build the company's earnings power in the midst of a sustained tough operating environment. We ended 2011 with solid client metrics  net new assets totaled $10.5 billion in December, the highest of the year excluding significant one-time flows, and core net new assets totaled an industry-leading $82.3 billion for the year, up from $78.1 billion in 2010. Client assets totaled $1.68 trillion as of month-end December 2011, up 7% year-over-year. Additionally, we added over 1.1 million new brokerage accounts to our client base during 2011 and ended the year serving 8.6 million active brokerage accounts, 780,000 banking accounts and 1.49 million corporate retirement plan participants, which were up 7%, 13% and 1%, respectively."
Mr. Bettinger continued, "Schwab's financial performance is not immune to the challenges posed by the current economic environment, which led to sequential declines in all of our major revenue lines in the fourth quarter, yet the company's pre-tax profit margin still exceeded 22% for the quarter and 29% for full-year 2011. At the same time, we're building long-term stockholder value by focusing on the things under our control, such as revenue diversification and sustained, disciplined investment for growth. As we move forward with initiatives like the integration of optionsXpress, our index-based 401(k) offering, and enhanced technology for independent advisors, we are simultaneously expanding both our client service capabilities and our non rate-sensitive revenues. We remain convinced that pursuing the strategy and
operating priorities already in place at Schwab represents the best path forward  we believe this will produce a superior service experience for clients and outsized improvement in earnings for stockholders as market conditions turn."
CFO Joe Martinetto commented, "We delivered on our financial commitments in 2011. Our full-year performance, which included 9% revenue growth and 7% expense growth before the inclusion of optionsXpress and certain charges, was actually ahead of our expectations given further declines in interest rates during the year and the fact that the broad equity indices spent a significant amount of time below breakeven before ending with minimal, or negative returns. As we've been discussing recently, our fourth quarter results were particularly impacted by elevated market volatility and lower rates, which persisted through year-end. Despite these conditions, ongoing growth in our client base enabled us to keep asset management and administration fees nearly flat between the third and fourth quarters, and we expect to combine our continued growth with sustained expense discipline to deliver improving revenues and earnings once the rate environment at least stabilizes."
Mr. Martinetto concluded, "Along with producing improved profitability, our remaining financial priorities  sustaining a healthy balance sheet and supporting continued growth in our business  haven't changed. Our asset quality remains high with limited credit-related losses, and we ended the year with $7.7 billion in stockholders' equity and regulatory capital ratios that were at or above our target levels. In addition, we continue to maintain substantial sources of available liquidity, including over $900 million in cash and investments at the parent level. We see another year of strong balance sheet growth in 2012 as our client initiatives yield stronger business momentum and we continue our work to optimize net interest income."
Business highlights for the fourth quarter (data as of quarter-end unless otherwise noted):
Investor Services
 
 
 
 
Institutional Services
Advisor Services
 
 
Other Institutional Services
 
 
Products and Infrastructure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, the Apple logo, iPad, and iPhone are trademarks of Apple Inc. registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Supporting schedules are either attached or located at:
http://www.aboutschwab.com/media/xls/q4_2011_schedule.xls
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward looking statements relating to the company building long-term stockholder value, expanding non rate-sensitive revenues, producing a superior service experience for clients and outsized improvement in earnings, continuing growth, sustaining expense discipline, delivering improving revenues and earnings, improving profitability and optimizing net interest income. Achievement of these expectations is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed expectations. Important factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and achieve the expected benefits; develop and launch new products, services and capabilities in a timely and successful manner; general market conditions, including the level of interest rates, equity valuations and trading activity; the company's ability to attract and retain clients and grow client assets/relationships; the impact of changes in market conditions on money market fund fee waivers, revenue, expenses and pre-tax margins; competitive pressures on rates and fees; the level of client assets, including cash balances; capital needs; level of expenses; adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and the extent of any charges associated with legal matters; the adverse impact of financial reform legislation and related regulations; financial results of competitors; and other factors set forth in the company's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011.
About Charles Schwab
The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW) is a leading provider of financial services, with more than 300 offices and 8.6 million active brokerage accounts, 1.49 million corporate retirement plan participants, 780,000 banking accounts, and $1.68 trillion in client assets. Through its operating subsidiaries, the company provides a full range of securities brokerage, banking, money management and financial advisory services to individual investors and independent investment advisors. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (member SIPC, ), and affiliates offer a complete range of investment services and products including an extensive selection of mutual funds; financial planning and investment advice; retirement plan and equity compensation plan services; referrals to independent fee-based investment advisors; and custodial, operational and trading support for independent, fee-based investment advisors through Schwab Advisor Services. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides banking and mortgage services and products. More information is available at and .
http://www.sipc.org
www.schwab.com
www.aboutschwab.com
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
 
 
 
N/M Not meaningful.
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income, Financial and Operating Highlights, and Net Interest Revenue Information.
The Company
The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information include The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Company), including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. and Charles Schwab Bank. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. The consolidated statements of income, financial and operating highlights, and net interest revenue information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


