FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20021219172515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
1 As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 19, 2002. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 19, 2002 Darden Restaurants, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Florida 1-13666 59-3305930 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission file number) (IRS employer of incorporation) identification No.) 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (407) 245-4000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Item 5. Other Events. ------------ On December 19, 2002, the Company issued a news release entitled "Darden Restaurants Announces Leadership Promotions," a copy of which is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number (by reference to Item 601 of Regulation S-K) Description 99 Press Release dated December 19, 2002, entitled "Darden Restaurants Announces Leadership Promotions." 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: December 19, 2002 DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. By: /s/ Paula J. Shives -------------------------------------------- Paula J. Shives Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit Number Description of Exhibit 99 Press Release dated December 19, 2002, entitled "Darden Restaurants Announces Leadership Promotions." 4
EXHIBIT 99 DARDEN RESTAURANTS Red Lobster(R)Olive Garden(R)Bahama Breeze(R)Smokey Bones(R) WWW.DARDEN.COM NEWS/INFORMATION Corporate Relations P.O. Box 593330 Orlando, FL 32859 Contacts: Jim DeSimone (Media) (407) 245-4563 Matthew Stroud (Analysts)(407) 245-5550 FOR RELEASE December 19, 2002 4:30 p.m. EST DARDEN RESTAURANTS ANNOUNCES LEADERSHIP PROMOTIONS ORLANDO, FL - Darden Restaurants (NYSE: DRI), owner and operator of the Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Smokey Bones BBQ Sports Bar casual dining restaurant brands, today announced key promotions and a restructuring of its senior management team. Dick Rivera, 55, Vice Chairman of Darden, is being promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer of the parent corporation. Clarence Otis, 46, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Darden, is being appointed President of Smokey Bones restaurants. Clarence will continue in his role as Executive Vice President of Darden to work with Dick and Joe Lee, the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to provide leadership of Darden's executive management committee. Linda Dimopoulos, 52, who is Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer, of Darden and has served as corporate controller and controller of Red Lobster, is being promoted to Chief Financial Officer of Darden. Matthew Stroud, 37, Senior Director, Investor Relations, is being promoted to Vice President of Investor Relations for Darden. Brad Blum, 48, also a Vice Chairman of Darden, is leaving the company to accept a position as Chief Executive Officer of Burger King Corporation. "We are very excited about these organizational changes, which reflect Darden's leadership depth and commitment to leadership development," said Lee. "We want to be a company that provides opportunities for our leaders inside the Darden family and we recognize that others in the restaurant industry, like Burger King, will also appreciate the depth of our talent." -MORE-
Darden established a new leadership structure in March designed to leverage the skills of its diverse team of strong leaders and build an even stronger, broader platform to grow the company. At the time, new presidents of Red Lobster and Olive Garden were appointed. Today's appointments further strengthen our operating leadership restructure with the appointment of Mr. Otis to lead Smokey Bones, and Mr. Rivera as the company's president and chief operating officer. The promotions of Ms. Dimopoulos and Mr. Stroud complete the leadership promotions ensuring continued strong financial expertise at the chief financial and investor relations positions of the company. "We'll miss Brad," said Lee. "He is a talented and creative visionary who helped build Darden Restaurants into an industry leader. We wish him well in his new position. "We're excited about the new leadership changes. Red Lobster and Olive Garden are operating very well and our emerging growth companies, Bahama Breeze and Smokey Bones have tremendous potential," said Joe Lee. "I'm very proud of this team." Darden Restaurants, Inc., headquartered in Orlando, FL, owns and operates over 1,200 Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Smokey Bones restaurants with annual sales of $4.4 billion. Forward-looking statements in this news release, if any, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain important factors could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including the impact of changing economic or business conditions, the impact of competition, the availability of favorable credit and trade terms, the impact of changes in the cost or availability of food and real estate, government regulation, construction costs, weather conditions and other factors discussed from time to time in reports filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. -END-


