FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20050620182329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): June 16, 2005 Darden Restaurants, Inc. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Florida 1-13666 59-3305930 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification Number) 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (Registrant's telephone number, including area code): (407) 245-4000 Not Applicable --------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. On June 16, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to the forms of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, Restricted Stock Award Agreement, Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (United States), Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada), Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (United States) and Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. Each of the forms of award agreements was amended to reflect updated change of control provisions, and the form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement was amended to add a share deposit feature. Copies of the amended forms of award agreements are filed as Exhibits 10.1(a) - (f) to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company issued a news release dated June 20, 2005, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Annual and Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share," a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information under this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 2
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (C) Exhibits. The following exhibits are being furnished with this Current Report: Exhibit Number (by reference to Item 601 of Regulation S-K) Description of Exhibit 10(a) Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(b) Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(c) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (US) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(d) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(e) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (US) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(f) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 99 Press Release dated June 20, 2005, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Annual and Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share." 3
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: June 20, 2005 DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. By: /s/ Paula J. Shives -------------------------------------- Name: Paula J. Shives Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 4
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description of Exhibit 10(a) Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(b) Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(c) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (US) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(d) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(e) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (US) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(f) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 99 Press Release dated June 20, 2005, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Annual and Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share." 5

Exhibit 10(a) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Notice of Stock Option Grant (the "Notice"). This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Notice (the "Grant Date"). The Company desires to provide you with an opportunity to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), as provided in this Agreement in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Grant of Option. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, the right and option (the "Option") to purchase all or any part of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Notice, on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). 2. Exercise Price. The per share purchase price of the shares subject to the Option shall be the purchase price per share set forth in the attached Notice. 3. Term of Option and Exercisability. The term of the Option shall be for a period of ten years from the Grant Date, terminating at the close of business on the expiration date set forth in the attached Notice (the "Expiration Date") or such shorter period as is prescribed in Sections 5 and 6 of this Agreement. The Option shall become exercisable, or vest, on the date or dates set forth in the attached Notice, subject to the provisions of Sections 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement. To the extent the Option is exercisable, you may exercise it in whole or in part, at any time, or from time to time, prior to the termination of the Option. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, from and after a Change of Control (as defined below) the following provisions shall apply:
(a) If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full for a period of six months following the date of the Change of Control. After this six-month period, the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above and in the attached Notice will govern with respect to any unexercised portion of the Option. However, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated within two years after a Change of Control, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (ii) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment. (b) If you are serving on the Board of Directors of the Company but are not an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (a "Non-Employee Director"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. (c) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (ii) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (iii) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Effect of Termination of Employment or End of Board Service. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is not a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, any portion of the Option that was not vested on the date of your termination of employment shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on the date of your termination of employment may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any portion of the Option that has not vested on the date of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately exercisable and the Option may be exercised until the earlier of 2
(x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is two years after the date of your termination of employment; (ii) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; or (iii) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, any portion of the Option that has not vested as of the date of your death shall vest on a pro rata basis and become immediately exercisable, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your death, and the Option may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution. (b) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is two years after the date of your termination of employment; (ii) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; or (iii) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution. (c) If you are a Non-Employee Director and you cease to serve on the Board of Directors, any portion of the Option that was not vested on your last day of Board service shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on your last day of Board service may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after your last day of Board service, except that: 3
(i) if you have served on the Company's Board of Directors for at least five years, any portion of the Option that was not vested on your last day of Board service shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on your last day of Board service may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; (ii) if you die while serving on the Company's Board of Directors, any portion of the Option that was not vested on your last day of Board service shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on your last day of Board service may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution; or (iii) if the Option is a Salary Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall continue to vest on the dates set forth in the Notice and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice notwithstanding the cessation of your service on the Board of Directors for any reason, including your death. 6. Non-Competition. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement, if, within two years following your termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company for any reason (including retirement), you directly or indirectly (a) own, manage or operate, become or are employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to any enterprise, corporation or business that owns or operates casual dining restaurants anywhere in the United States or Canada (a "Competitor") or (b) you solicit or induce any person who is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company to own, manage or operate, become employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to a Competitor, then your Option will expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice or (ii) on the date that is three months after the date you commenced employment with the Competitor or took the competitive action described above. 7. Method of Exercising Option. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, you may exercise your Option by following the procedures established by the Company from time to time. In addition, you may exercise your Option by written notice to the Company as provided in Section 10(i) of this Agreement that states (i) your election to exercise the Option, (ii) the Grant Date of the Option, (iii) the purchase price of the shares, (iv) the number of shares as to which the Option is being exercised, (v) the manner of payment and (vi) the manner of payment for any income tax withholding amount. The notice shall be signed by you or the Person or Persons exercising the Option. The notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the exercise price for all shares designated in the notice. To the extent that the Option is exercised after your death, the notice of exercise shall also be accompanied by appropriate proof of the right of such Person or Persons to exercise the Option. 4
(b) Payment of the exercise price shall be made to the Company through one or a combination of the following methods: (i) cash, in United States currency (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the Company); or (ii) delivery (either actual delivery or by attestation) of shares of Common Stock acquired by you more than six months prior to the date of exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Option exercise price. You shall represent and warrant in writing that you are the owner of the shares so delivered, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and restrictions, and you shall duly endorse in blank all certificates delivered to the Company. 8. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax adviser regarding the income tax consequences of exercising the Option or any other matters related to this Agreement. If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, in order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of the Option by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered upon exercise of the Option having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 9. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the shares covered by the Option such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Agreement, then the Committee administering the Plan shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of the shares covered by the Option and the exercise price of the Option. 5
10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Rights as a Shareholder. Neither you nor your legal representatives shall have any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option unless and until such shares are issued upon exercise of the Option. (c) No Right to Employment or Board Service. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company or to continue to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (d) Option Not Transferable. Except as otherwise provided by the Plan or by the Committee administering the Plan, the Option shall not be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you or, if permissible under applicable law, by your guardian or legal representative. The Option may not be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance of the Option shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. (e) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times during the term of the Option reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (f) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (g) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (h) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. 6
(i) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5500 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (j) Notice of Stock Option Grant. This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is attached to and made part of a Notice of Stock Option Grant and shall have no force or effect unless such Notice is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 7

Exhibit 10(b) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock for that number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Shares"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Shares. With respect to the Shares, you shall be entitled to exercise the rights of a shareholder of Common Stock of the Company, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive cash dividends thereon as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 5 hereof. Your rights with respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. (b) If, but only if, the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Award Agreement states that the Expiration Date of the Restricted Period is subject to acceleration based on Company performance, then the following provisions will apply:
(i) The Shares shall vest, and the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse, annually following the end of each of the first five fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, in an amount equal to twice the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate (as defined below) for the applicable fiscal year, rounded to the nearest whole number, provided that the Darden Annual Return on Capital (as defined below) for that fiscal year exceeds the Return on Capital Threshold (as defined below) for that fiscal year. (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate" for the applicable fiscal year means the percentage computed by (x) subtracting the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) from the consolidated sales for the Company for the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statement for such year), (y) dividing the amount computed pursuant to clause (x) by the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) and (z) multiplying the amount computed pursuant to clause (y) by 100. Following the end of the second through fifth fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate shall be determined on a cumulative basis for the combined years covered by the calculation, adjusted to reflect the amount of the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate, if any, that has previously resulted in the accelerated vesting of Shares pursuant to this Section 3(b). (iii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Return on Capital" for the applicable fiscal year means the Company's return on capital for that year as computed by the Company's accounting department, and the term "Return on Capital Threshold" for the applicable fiscal year means the median return on capital as computed by the Company's accounting department for the competitive set of companies selected by the Committee for the prior year. If the Darden Annual Return on Capital does not exceed the Return on Capital Threshold for the applicable fiscal year, then no Shares shall vest pursuant to this Section 3(b) for that year. (iv) The calculations under this Section 3(b) shall be made on or before the June 30 immediately following the end of the applicable fiscal year and any accelerated vesting resulting from such calculations shall be effective as of that June 30. (v) The Committee administering the Plan shall have the authority to make any determinations regarding questions arising from the application of the provisions of this Section 3(b), which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on you and the Company. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the 2
restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture; Automatic Conversion to Restricted Stock Units; Deposit Shares. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any Shares that have not vested on the date of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately vested on the date of your termination of employment; (ii) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you will continue to vest in the Shares of Restricted Stock as set forth in the Award Certificate; or (iii) if you die prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Shares will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your death, based on the number of full months from the Grant Date to the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Shares which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 3
(b) If the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Award Agreement states that this Restricted Stock Award has been awarded subject to the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), then this Restricted Stock Award and the related Shares shall be cancelled, forfeited and returned to the Company unless all of the requirements set forth in the MIP for the year to which the grant of this Restricted Stock Award relates are satisfied. (c) If the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Award Agreement states that the Expiration Date of the Restricted Period is not subject to acceleration based on Company performance, and if, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Automatic Conversion Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then (i) as of the Automatic Conversion Date, your rights to all of the Shares that are unvested on the Automatic Conversion Date shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, and (ii) you shall automatically receive, effective as of the Automatic Conversion Date, an award of restricted stock units under the Plan for that number of units equal to the number of Shares so forfeited, dated as of the Grant Date, with the same vesting schedule as provided in this Agreement and containing such other terms and conditions as are set forth in or established under the Plan. (d) If the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Award Agreement states that the Expiration Date of the Restricted Period is subject to acceleration based on Company performance, and if, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Deposit Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then you may elect to place on deposit with the Company one personally owned share of Common Stock (the "Deposit Shares") for every two Shares that are unvested on the Deposit Date. If you withdraw any or all of the Deposit Shares before the Shares have vested, two Shares that are unvested will be forfeited for each Deposit Share withdrawn. The Company will release to you one Deposit Share for every two Shares that vest following the Deposit Date. In lieu of physical deposit of Share certificates with the Company, the Company may accept such other form or evidence of deposit as it deems appropriate. 6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Shares may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Shares. 7. Issuance and Custody of Certificates. (a) The Company shall cause the Shares to be issued in your name, either by book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. The Shares shall be restricted from transfer and shall be subject 4
to an appropriate stop-transfer order. If any certificate is issued, the certificate shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to the Shares. (b) If any certificate is issued, you shall be required to execute and deliver to the Company a stock power or stock powers relating to the Shares as a condition to the receipt of this Award of Restricted Stock. (c) After any Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause such vested Shares (less any shares withheld to pay taxes), free of the restrictions and/or legend described in Section 7(a) hereof, to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. 8. Distributions and Adjustments. (a) If any Shares vest subsequent to any change in the number or character of the Common Stock of the Company (through any stock dividend or other distribution, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or otherwise), you shall then receive upon such vesting the number and type of securities or other consideration which you would have received if such Shares had vested prior to the event changing the number or character of the outstanding Common Stock. (b) Any additional shares of Common Stock of the Company, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or other cash distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares to which they relate and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary. (c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with respect to the Shares shall be distributed to you at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Shares, payment of dividends on the Shares, the vesting of the Shares and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state or local income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state or local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares by (i) 5
delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional Share but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (d) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (e) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (f) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 6
(g) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 7

Exhibit 10(c) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (United States) This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Restricted Stock Units"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units. (a) The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. (b) As long as you hold Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, the Company shall make a cash payment to you, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders of Common Stock generally, in the amount equal to the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per share of Common Stock on such date multiplied by the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, less any tax withholding amount applicable to such payment. 3. Vesting. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on the date
or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. (b) If, but only if, the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement states that the Vesting Date is subject to acceleration based on Company performance, then the following provisions will apply: (i) The Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, annually following the end of each of the first five fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, in an amount equal to twice the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate (as defined below) for the applicable fiscal year, rounded to the nearest whole number, provided that the Darden Annual Return on Capital (as defined below) for that fiscal year exceeds the Return on Capital Threshold (as defined below) for that fiscal year. (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate" for the applicable fiscal year means the percentage computed by (x) subtracting the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) from the consolidated sales for the Company for the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statement for such year), (y) dividing the amount computed pursuant to clause (x) by the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) and (z) multiplying the amount computed pursuant to clause (y) by 100. Following the end of the second through fifth fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate shall be determined on a cumulative basis for the combined years covered by the calculation, adjusted to reflect the amount of the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate, if any, that has previously resulted in the accelerated vesting of Shares pursuant to this Section 3(b). (iii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Return on Capital" for the applicable fiscal year means the Company's return on capital for that year as computed by the Company's accounting department, and the term "Return on Capital Threshold" for the applicable fiscal year means the median return on capital as computed by the Company's accounting department for the competitive set of companies selected by the Committee for the prior year. If the Darden Annual Return on Capital does not exceed the Return on Capital Threshold for the applicable fiscal year, then no Shares shall vest pursuant to this Section 3(b) for that year. (iv) The calculations under this Section 3(b) shall be made on or before the June 30 immediately following the end of the applicable fiscal year and any accelerated vesting resulting from such calculations shall be effective as of that June 30. (v) The Committee administering the Plan shall have the authority to make any determinations regarding questions arising from the application of the provisions of 2
this Section 3(b), which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on you and the Company. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any Restricted Stock Units that have not vested on the date of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately vested on the date of your termination of employment; (ii) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you will continue to vest in the Restricted Stock Units as set forth in the Award Certificate; or (iii) if you die prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your death, based on the number of full months from the Grant Date to the date of 3
your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Restricted Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. (b) If the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement states that this Restricted Stock Units Award has been awarded subject to the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), then this Restricted Stock Units Award shall be cancelled, forfeited and returned to the Company unless all of the requirements set forth in the MIP for the year to which the grant of this Restricted Stock Units Award relates are satisfied. 6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Restricted Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Restricted Stock Units. 7. Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit. Following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to pay taxes) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Restricted Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its 4
sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the receipt of shares of Common Stock, and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or 5
regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6

Exhibit 10(d) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (Canada) This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Restricted Stock Units"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units. (a) The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. (b) As long as you hold Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, the Company shall make a cash payment to you, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders of Common Stock generally, in the amount equal to the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per share of Common Stock on such date multiplied by the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, less any withholding on account of taxes or other similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions) in respect of such payment.
3. Vesting. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. (b) If, but only if, the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement states that the Vesting Date is subject to acceleration based on Company performance, then the following provisions will apply: (i) The Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, annually following the end of each of the first five fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, in an amount equal to twice the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate (as defined below) for the applicable fiscal year, rounded to the nearest whole number, provided that the Darden Annual Return on Capital (as defined below) for that fiscal year exceeds the Return on Capital Threshold (as defined below) for that fiscal year. (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate" for the applicable fiscal year means the percentage computed by (x) subtracting the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) from the consolidated sales for the Company for the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statement for such year), (y) dividing the amount computed pursuant to clause (x) by the consolidated sales for the Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year (as reflected in the Company's annual audited financial statements for such year) and (z) multiplying the amount computed pursuant to clause (y) by 100. Following the end of the second through fifth fiscal years ending after the Grant Date, the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate shall be determined on a cumulative basis for the combined years covered by the calculation, adjusted to reflect the amount of the Darden Annual Sales Growth Rate, if any, that has previously resulted in the accelerated vesting of Shares pursuant to this Section 3(b). (iii) For purposes of this Agreement, "Darden Annual Return on Capital" for the applicable fiscal year means the Company's return on capital for that year as computed by the Company's accounting department, and the term "Return on Capital Threshold" for the applicable fiscal year means the median return on capital as computed by the Company's accounting department for the competitive set of companies selected by the Committee for the prior year. If the Darden Annual Return on Capital does not exceed the Return on Capital Threshold for the applicable fiscal year, then no Shares shall vest pursuant to this Section 3(b) for that year. 2
(iv) The calculations under this Section 3(b) shall be made on or before the June 30 immediately following the end of the applicable fiscal year and any accelerated vesting resulting from such calculations shall be effective as of that June 30. (v) The Committee administering the Plan shall have the authority to make any determinations regarding questions arising from the application of the provisions of this Section 3(b), which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on you and the Company. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any Restricted Stock Units that have not vested on the date of notice of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of notice of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately vested on the date of notice of your termination of employment; 3
(ii) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you will continue to vest in the Restricted Stock Units as set forth in the Award Certificate; or (iii) if you die prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your death, based on the number of full months from the Grant Date to the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Restricted Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. (b) If the Award Certificate attached to this Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement states that this Restricted Stock Units Award has been awarded subject to the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), then this Restricted Stock Units Award shall be cancelled, forfeited and returned to the Company unless all of the requirements set forth in the MIP for the year to which the grant of this Restricted Stock Units Award relates are satisfied. 6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Restricted Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Restricted Stock Units. 7. Conversion of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit. Subject to deductions of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to satisfy such amounts) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Any shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to this Award Agreement shall be newly issued shares. 4
8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Restricted Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the receipt of shares of Common Stock, and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign income tax or other laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, or similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions), are collected from you or withheld from any amounts (including shares of Common Stock) paid or delivered to you pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax or other similar amount to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the 5
Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal, provincial or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6

Exhibit 10(e) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN DARDEN STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (United States) This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Darden Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Darden Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Darden Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Darden Stock Units"), each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates set forth in the attached Award Certificate, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in Section 7 hereof) of one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Darden Stock Units. The Darden Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement are not shares of Common Stock and do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Darden Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Darden Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, except that: (a) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any Darden Stock Units that have not vested on the date of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately vested on the date of your termination of employment; (b) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you will continue to vest in the Darden Stock Units as set forth in the Award Certificate; or (c) if you die prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your death, based on the number of full months from the Grant Date to the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Darden Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 2
6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Darden Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Darden Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Darden Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Darden Stock Units. 7. Payment of Darden Stock Units. No cash shall be paid to you prior to the date on which the applicable Darden Stock Units vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly make a cash payment to you in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit, subject to the payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued hereunder. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated as set forth below: (a) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is a Trading Day (as defined below), the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (i) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date and (ii) dividing such sum by two. (b) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is not a Trading Day, the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (i) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the vesting date and (ii) dividing such sum by two. (c) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Daily Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean, for any Trading Day, the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated by (i) adding the U.S. dollar amount of each trade (computed as the transaction price times the number of shares of Common Stock traded in that transaction) during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day and (ii) dividing such sum by the total number of shares of Common Stock traded during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day. (d) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Trading Day" shall mean a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. 3
8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Darden Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Darden Stock Units. 9. Taxes. You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Darden Stock Units, the vesting of the Darden Stock Units, the receipt of cash upon the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, the Company will satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units by withholding a portion of the cash otherwise to be delivered equal to the amount of such taxes. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way 4
material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (d) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (e) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (f) Award Certificate. This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 5

Exhibit 10(f) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN DARDEN STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (Canada) This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Darden Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Darden Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Darden Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Darden Stock Units"), each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates set forth in the attached Award Certificate, one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), or, at your election, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in Section 7(b) hereof) of one share of Common Stock, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Darden Stock Units. The Darden Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement are not shares of Common Stock and do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Darden Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Darden Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, except that: (a) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then any Darden Stock Units that have not vested on the date of notice of your termination of employment but that would have vested within two years from the date of notice of termination if your employment had continued shall become immediately vested on the date of notice of your termination of employment; (b) if you retire on or after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you will continue to vest in the Darden Stock Units as set forth in the Award Certificate; or (c) if you die prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your death, based on the number of full months from the Grant Date to the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Darden Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or 2
such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Darden Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Darden Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Darden Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Darden Stock Units. 7. Conversion of Darden Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock; Election to Receive Cash in Lieu of Common Stock. (a) No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Darden Stock Units vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, and provided that you have not elected to receive cash pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit. Subject to deductions of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to satisfy such amounts) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Any shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to this Award Agreement shall be newly issued shares. (b) In lieu of receiving shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof, you may elect to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit. In order to be effective, any such election must be made in writing delivered to the Company at the address set forth in Section 10(g) hereof not later than 30 days prior to the vesting date of the applicable Darden Stock Units. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof for which the Company has received a notice complying with the preceding sentence, the Company shall promptly make a cash payment to you in Canadian Dollars in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit multiplied by the exchange rate selected by the Company for the conversion of United States Dollars into Canadian Dollars in effect on the vesting date, subject to the deduction of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated as set forth below: (i) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is a Trading Day (as defined below), the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (A) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the vesting 3
date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date and (B) dividing such sum by two. (ii) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is not a Trading Day, the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (A) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the vesting date and (B) dividing such sum by two. (iii) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Daily Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean, for any Trading Day, the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated by (A) adding the U.S. dollar amount of each trade (computed as the transaction price times the number of shares of Common Stock traded in that transaction) during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day and (B) dividing such sum by the total number of shares of Common Stock traded during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day. (iv) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Trading Day" shall mean a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Darden Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Darden Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Darden Stock Units, the vesting of the Darden Stock Units, the receipt of shares of Common Stock or cash upon the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign income tax or other laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, 4
provincial, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, or similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions), are collected from you or withheld from any amounts (including shares of Common Stock) paid or delivered to you pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax or other similar amount to be withheld is determined. (c) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, the Company will satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of cash pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof by withholding a portion of the cash otherwise to be delivered equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. 5
(d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal, provincial or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6

Exhibit 99 DARDEN RESTAURANTS Red Lobster(R) Olive Garden(R) Bahama Breeze(R) Smokey Bones(R) www.darden.com NEWS/INFORMATION Corporate Relations P.O. Box 593330 Orlando, FL 32859 Contacts: (Analysts) Matthew Stroud (407) 245-6458 (Media) Jim DeSimone (407) 245-4567 FOR RELEASE June 20, 2005 4:30 PM ET DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS ANNUAL AND FOURTH QUARTER DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE ORLANDO, FL, June 20 - Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE:DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter ended May 29, 2005. For the fiscal year, diluted net earnings per share were $1.78, a 33% increase, on net earnings of $290.6 million. In the fourth quarter, diluted net earnings per share were 52 cents, a 63% increase, on net earnings of $84.0 million. Excluding last year's fourth quarter asset impairment and restructuring charges, diluted net earnings per share for the quarter and fiscal year increased 16% and 21%, respectively, over the same periods last year. Darden Restaurants, the world's largest casual dining company, reported that full year sales increased 5.5% to $5.3 billion. In the fourth quarter, sales increased 2.6% to $1.4 billion, driven primarily by strong sales at Olive Garden and new restaurant growth at Smokey Bones. Excluding the additional operating week in the fourth quarter of last year, annual sales grew 7.4% and fourth quarter sales grew 9.9% over the prior year. "This quarter's strong earnings growth was a great ending to a milestone year for Darden Restaurants," said Clarence Otis, Darden's Chief Executive Officer. "In 2005, we completed transitions in a number of key leadership positions, celebrated our tenth anniversary as a publicly traded company and achieved record earnings. Our long-term success and exceptional results this year are a testament to the power of combining a strong culture with competitively superior people and strong brand management, restaurant operations and restaurant support. This winning combination helped us pioneer casual dining, and we're convinced it will help us pioneer the industry's next frontier and become the best company in casual dining, now and for generations." -MORE-
-2- Highlights for the quarter and year ended May 29, 2005 include the following: o Net earnings for the fiscal year were $290.6 million, or $1.78 per diluted share, on sales of $5.3 billion (52 weeks). Last year, net earnings were $227.2 million, or $1.34 per diluted share, for the fiscal year. Excluding last year's asset impairment and restructuring charges of $23.1 million net of income taxes, in the fourth quarter, net earnings were $250.2 million, or $1.47 per diluted share, on sales of $5.0 billion (53 weeks). o Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $84.0 million, or 52 cents per diluted share, on sales of $1.4 billion (13 weeks). Last year, net earnings were $52.7 million, or 32 cents per diluted share, for the fourth quarter, on sales of $1.4 billion (14 weeks). Excluding last year's fourth quarter asset impairment and restructuring charges of $23.1 million net of income taxes, net earnings were $75.7 million, or 45 cents per diluted share. o Olive Garden's U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 9.9% in the fourth quarter on a 13 weeks versus 13 weeks basis. This is the 43rd consecutive quarter of same-restaurant sales growth, bringing Olive Garden's same-restaurant sales increase for the fiscal year to 7.2% on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis. o Red Lobster's U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 3.4% in the fourth quarter on a 13 weeks versus 13 weeks basis. This brings Red Lobster's same-restaurant sales growth for the fiscal year to 0.9% on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis. o Smokey Bones opened six restaurants during the fourth quarter and, with a total of 35 openings during the fiscal year, increased to 104 restaurants in operation. o Darden purchased 4.5 million shares of its common stock in the fourth quarter, bringing the total number of shares repurchased during the year to 11.3 million. Operating Highlights OLIVE GARDEN'S fourth quarter sales of $626.9 million were 5.6% above prior year (13 weeks versus 14 weeks), driven primarily by a same-restaurant sales increase of 9.9% (on a 13 weeks versus 13 weeks basis) and revenue from 20 net new restaurants opened during fiscal 2005. Olive Garden had record total sales for the fiscal year of $2.4 billion, up 8.5% from last year, and its average annual sales per restaurant were $4.4 million as same-restaurant sales increased 7.2% for the fiscal year (on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis). Excluding last year's additional operating week, annual sales increased 10.6% and fourth quarter sales rose 13.6%. For the quarter, the company's sales gains and lower depreciation expense and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of sales, more than offset increased food and beverage costs, restaurant expenses and restaurant labor expenses as a percent of sales. This resulted in a strong increase in operating profit for the quarter and the year along with record annual operating profit and return on sales.
-MORE- -3- RED LOBSTER'S fourth quarter sales of $635.3 million were 2.7% below prior year (13 weeks versus 14 weeks). Same-restaurant sales increased 3.4% in the fourth quarter (on a 13 weeks versus 13 weeks basis). Red Lobster's total sales for the fiscal year were $2.4 billion, equal to last year, and its average annual sales per restaurant were $3.6 million. Same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year were up 0.9% (on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis). Excluding last year's additional operating week, annual sales grew 1.7% and fourth quarter sales increased 3.8%. The impact of one less operating week than the prior year, as well as higher restaurant labor and marketing expenses as a percent of sales, were mostly offset by lower food and beverage costs, restaurant expenses and general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales. The net result was slightly lower operating profit compared to the fourth quarter of last year, although Red Lobster recorded a solid increase in operating profit for the fourth quarter on a 13 weeks versus 13 weeks basis. BAHAMA BREEZE'S total sales were $163.6 million in fiscal 2005 and average annual sales per restaurant were $5.1 million. Same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year were down 1.6% (on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis). Bahama Breeze's operating profit was slightly positive this year and was significantly favorable to last year. SMOKEY BONES opened six restaurants during the fourth quarter and had 104 restaurants in operation at the end of the fiscal year. Since the end of the quarter, one restaurant has closed and two have opened. Total sales for Smokey Bones were $269.3 million in fiscal 2005 and average annual sales per restaurant were $3.1 million, which compares to average annual sales of $3.2 million last year. Smokey Bones' same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year increased 1.1% (on a 52 weeks versus 52 weeks basis). The company plans to open 25 to 30 restaurants during fiscal 2006. "Darden delivered outstanding operating performance this quarter and this fiscal year," said Drew Madsen, President and Chief Operating Officer for Darden. "Once again, Olive Garden led the way with tremendous sales and operating profit growth combined with strong guest satisfaction. Red Lobster made excellent progress, achieving three consecutive quarters of same-restaurant sales growth and solid annual operating profit growth as well as record guest satisfaction scores. Bahama Breeze's strengthening business model led to a substantial improvement in financial performance this year as they reached profitability. While Smokey Bones fell short of our profitability target for the fourth quarter, they enjoyed same-restaurant sales growth for the year and continued to deliver high levels of guest satisfaction even as they rapidly grew their business." Other Actions Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 4.5 million shares in the fourth quarter. Since commencing its purchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased a total of 120.6 million shares under authorizations totaling 137.4 million shares. The Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on September 21, 2005 at the Gaylord Palms Orlando Resort Hotel in Kissimmee, FL. The record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting is July 25, 2005. May 2005 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the four-week May fiscal month ended May 29, 2005. This period is the last month of Darden's fiscal 2005 fourth quarter.
-MORE- -4- Same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden were up 11% to 12% for fiscal May on a four weeks versus four weeks basis, which reflected a 2% to 3% increase in check average and a 9% to 10% increase in guest counts. The check average increase was a result of a 2% increase in pricing and a 0% to 1% increase from menu mix changes. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden were up 1% to 2% during fiscal May. Same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster were up 5% to 6% for fiscal May on a four weeks versus four weeks basis, which reflected a 1% to 2% increase in check average and a 3% to 4% increase in guest counts. The check average increase was a result of a 1% to 2% increase in pricing and a 0% to 1% increase from menu mix changes. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster were down 4% to 5% during fiscal May. Fiscal 2006 Outlook Darden expects combined same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2006 of between 2% and 4% for Red Lobster and Olive Garden. Darden also expects to open between 55 and 65 new restaurants in fiscal 2006. "We are committed to keeping Red Lobster and Smokey Bones confidently on a path to capturing their full potential, positioning Bahama Breeze for growth and building on Olive Garden's strong momentum," said Otis. "With the investments required, solid same-restaurant sales growth at all our brands, new restaurant growth somewhat above our fiscal 2005 levels and meaningful year-over-year earnings improvement at Smokey Bones at its greater scale, we anticipate low double-digit diluted net earnings per share growth in fiscal 2006." Darden Restaurants, Inc., headquartered in Orlando, FL, owns and operates over 1,380 Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze, Smokey Bones and Seasons 52 restaurants with annual sales of $5.3 billion. NON-GAAP REPORTING In addition to GAAP reporting, Darden has reported net earnings as well as diluted net earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis for the fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter ended May 30, 2004. This non-GAAP earnings information excludes the fourth quarter asset impairment and restructuring charges totaling approximately $23.1 million net of income taxes, for the closure of six Bahama Breeze restaurants and a write down of the value of four other Bahama Breeze restaurants, one Olive Garden restaurant and one Red Lobster restaurant. Darden believes this non-GAAP earnings information provides meaningful insight into the Company's on-going performance and has therefore chosen to provide this information to investors for a more consistent basis of comparison and to emphasize the results of on-going operations. Darden also uses this information internally to evaluate and manage its operations and to determine incentive compensation. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter ended May 30, 2004 is included in the table below. -MORE- -5- Forward-looking statements in this news release are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain important factors could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including the impact of changing economic or business conditions, the impact of competition, the availability of favorable credit and trade terms, the impact of changes in the cost or availability of food and real estate, government regulation, construction costs, weather conditions and other factors discussed from time to time in reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. NUMBER OF RESTAURANTS 05/29/05 05/30/04 -------- -------- 648 Red Lobster USA 649 31 Red Lobster Canada 31 ------ ------------------ ------ 679 Total Red Lobster 680 557 Olive Garden USA 537 6 Olive Garden Canada 6 ------ ------------------- ------ 563 Total Olive Garden 543 32 Bahama Breeze 32 104 Smokey Bones 69 3 Seasons 52 1 ------ ------ 1,381 Total Restaurants 1,325
-MORE- -6- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) * Amounts reflect the impact of the restatement of our financial statements, as disclosed in our 10-K/A dated January 7, 2005.
-MORE- -7- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands) (Unaudited) 5/29/2005 5/30/2004 ASSETS (as restated)* Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 42,801 $ 36,694 Receivables 36,510 30,258 Inventories 235,444 198,781 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 28,927 25,316 Deferred income taxes 63,584 55,258 Total current assets $ 407,266 $ 346,307 Land, buildings and equipment, net 2,351,454 2,250,616 Other assets 179,051 183,425 Total assets $ 2,937,771 $ 2,780,348 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 191,197 $ 174,624 Short-term debt -- 14,500 Accrued payroll 114,602 103,327 Accrued income taxes 52,404 48,753 Other accrued taxes 43,825 38,440 Unearned revenues 88,472 75,513 Current portion of long-term debt 299,929 -- Other current liabilities 254,178 228,324 Total current liabilities $ 1,044,607 $ 683,481 Long-term debt, less current portion 350,318 653,349 Deferred income taxes 114,846 132,690 Deferred rent 130,872 122,879 Other liabilities 24,109 12,661 Total liabilities $ 1,664,752 $ 1,605,060 Stockholders' equity: Common stock and surplus $ 1,703,336 $ 1,584,115 Retained earnings 1,405,754 1,127,653 Treasury stock (1,784,835) (1,483,768) Accumulated other comprehensive income (8,876) (10,173) Unearned compensation (41,685) (41,401) Officer notes receivable (675) (1,138) Total stockholders' equity $ 1,273,019 $ 1,175,288 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 2,937,771 $ 2,780,348 * Amounts reflect the impact of the restatement of our financial statements, as disclosed in our 10-K/A dated January 7, 2005.
-MORE- -8- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Fourth Quarter FY 2005 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (In millions, except per share data) (Unaudited) * Amounts reflect the impact of the restatement of our financial statements, as disclosed in our 10-K/A dated January 7, 2005. -END-


