FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20060605161518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): June 2, 2006 DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Florida 1-13666 59-3305930 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification Number) 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (Registrant's telephone number, including area code): (407) 245-4000 Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. Item 3.03 below is incorporated herein by reference. Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders. Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("Wells Fargo") have entered into a Transfer Agent Services Agreement dated May 26, 2006 to appoint Wells Fargo to replace Wachovia Bank, National Association ("Wachovia") as the Company's transfer agent and dividend disbursing agent for its common stock, effective as of June 5, 2006. In connection with that change, the Company, Wachovia and Wells Fargo have entered into an Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of June 2, 2006 ("Amendment"), amending that certain Rights Agreement dated as of May 16, 2005 ("Rights Agreement") between the Company and Wachovia, as Rights Agent. The Amendment was approved by the Company's Board of Directors as permitted under the terms of the Rights Agreement, and appoints Wells Fargo to replace Wachovia as Rights Agent under the Rights Agreement effective as of June 5, 2006. The Company and Wells Fargo have certain other previously existing relationships pursuant to: (i) a Credit Agreement dated as of August 16, 2005 between the Company and a consortium of banks, including Wells Fargo, under which the Company may borrow up to $500,000,000; (ii) an Indenture dated as of January 1, 1996 between the Company and Wells Fargo, as Trustee, pursuant to which the Company issues debt securities; and (iii) a Benefits Trust Agreement dated as of October 3, 1995, between the Company and Wells Fargo, copies of which have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following is a brief summary of the material terms of the Amendment to the Rights Agreement. A summary of the terms of the original Rights Agreement is contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 16, 2005, and that summary, and the full text of the Rights Agreement filed as Exhibit 4.1 to that Form 8-K, are incorporated herein by reference. The following summary of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of both the Rights Agreement, and the Amendment which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4 and incorporated herein by reference. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning as set forth in the Rights Agreement. The Amendment provides that any reference in the Rights Agreement to the Rights Agent shall be deemed to be a reference to Wells Fargo. The Amendment also: (i) allows the Rights Agent to maintain electronic instead of physical records of cancelled or destroyed Right Certificates; (ii) provides that the Company may remove the Rights Agent by notice to the Rights Agent, the transfer agent and the holders of the Right Certificates, but deletes the requirement that such notice be 30 days in advance of the removal; and (iii) deletes the requirement that the Rights Agent must have an office in the State of New York. 2
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibit Number. Description of Exhibit. 4 Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of June 2, 2006, by and between Darden Restaurants, Inc., Wachovia Bank, National Association, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor Rights Agent. 3
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: June 2, 2006 DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. By: /s/Paula J. Shives ------------------------------ Paula J. Shives Senior Vice President,General Counsel and Secretary 4
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description 4 Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of June 2, 2006, by and between Darden Restaurants, Inc., Wachovia Bank, National Association, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor Rights Agent. 5

Exhibit 4 AMENDMENT TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT This Amendment dated as of June 2, 2006, effective as of June 5, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), is by and between Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company"), Wachovia Bank, National Association ("Wachovia"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("Wells"), and amends that certain Rights Agreement between the Corporation and Wachovia dated as of May 16, 2005 (the "Rights Agreement"). All capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Rights Agreement. WHEREAS, Wachovia has resigned and been removed as Rights Agent, and Wells has been appointed as successor Rights Agent, pursuant to the terms of Section 21 of the Rights Agreement, effective as of the Effective Date; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows: 1. Resignation of Rights Agent and Appointment of Successor. The resignation and removal of Wachovia and appointment of Wells as Rights Agent under the Rights Agreement, effective the Effective Date, is ratified, approved and confirmed. 2. Amendment of Rights Agreement. The Rights Agreement shall be amended, effective the Effective Date, as follows: a. Any reference in the Rights Agreement to the "Rights Agent" shall be deemed to be a reference to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. b. Section 8 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended by adding the following text at the end thereof: "Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Rights Agent shall be permitted, in lieu of delivery of physical cancelled Right Certificates, and subject to applicable law and regulation, to maintain in a retrievable database electronic records of all cancelled or destroyed Right Certificates which have been canceled or destroyed by the Rights Agent. The Rights Agent shall maintain such electronic records or physical records for the time period required by applicable law and regulation. Upon written request of the Company (and at the expense of the Company), the Rights Agent shall provide to the Company or its designee copies of such electronic records or physical records relating to the Right Certificates cancelled or destroyed by the Rights Agent." c. The second sentence of Section 21 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended to delete the phrase "30 days'", so the sentence shall read in its entirety as follows: "The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Shares or Preferred Shares by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Right Certificates by first-class mail."
d. The fifth sentence of Section 21 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended to delete the phrase "having an office in the State of New York," so the sentence shall read in its entirety as follows: "Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company or by such a court, shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of the State of New York (or of any other state of the United States so long as such corporation is authorized to do business as a banking institution in the State of New York), in good standing, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority and which has at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million." e. Section 26 of the Rights Agreement shall be amended to delete the reference to Wachovia Bank, National Association, and its mailing address, and replacing it with the following: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 161 N. Concord Exchange South St. Paul, MN 55075 f. On the form of Right Certificate attached as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement, each reference to Wachovia Bank, National Association shall instead be a reference to "Wells Fargo Bank, National Association," and on the Form of Assignment and Form of Election to Purchase attached thereto, the heading "Signature Guaranteed:" shall be amended to read: "Signature Medallion Guaranteed:". 3. Rights Agreement Remains in Effect. Except as amended hereby, all terms and provisions of the Rights Agreement as in effect on the date hereof are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. Any future reference to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to be a reference to the Rights Agreement as amended hereby. [This space intentionally left blank] 2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment to Rights Agreement on the date, and effective the date, first above written. Attest: Darden Restaurants, Inc. By: /s/ Paula J. Shives By: /s/ Clarence Otis, Jr. ------------------- ---------------------------- Paula J. Shives Clarence Otis, Jr. Senior Vice President, General Chairman and Counsel and Secretary Chief Executive Officer Attest: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, By: /s/ Lennie M. Kaufman By: /s/ Karri L. Van Dell --------------------- ------------------------- Name: Lennie M. Kaufman Name: Karri L. Van Dell Title: Executive Vie President Title: Vice President Attest: Wachovia Bank, National Association By: /s/ Mark Nelson By: /s/ Darryl Fluhme --------------- ------------------------ Name: Senior Vice President Name: Darryl Fluhme Title: Executive Vice President Title: Executive Vice President 3


