FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20060620164036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
================================================================================ UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report: June 15, 2006 (Date of earliest event reported) DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Commission File Number: 1-13666 Florida 59-3305930 (State or other jurisdiction (IRS Employer Identification No.) of incorporation) 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (407) 245-4000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ================================================================================
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement On June 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to the existing forms of (i) Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement; (ii) Restricted Stock Award Agreement; (iii) Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (United States); (iv) Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada); (v) Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (United States); and (vi) Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada), under the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan ("2002 Plan"), and also approved a new Performance Stock Units Award Agreement under the 2002 Plan. The amendments to the existing award agreements included changes to the vesting provisions applicable to retirement, death and involuntary termination, and in some cases included changes to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement provides for the award of stock units with vesting from zero to 150% of the stock units awarded based on the achievement of certain performance measures, and upon vesting, the Company shall issue one share of Common Stock for each vested stock unit. Copies of these forms of award agreements are filed as Exhibits 10(a) - 10(g) to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and the foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to those documents. The development of new restaurant concepts is an important component of the Company's long-term growth strategy, and the compensation structure for key employees in this area is designed to provide long-term incentives for achieving successful results. Under the Company's Management Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), the Compensation Committee may provide for bonuses for special projects, and such an arrangement was made with Blaine Sweatt, III, who is both President, New Business Development and a director of the Company. The Company entered into a Special Project Incentive Program agreement with Mr. Sweatt dated August 16, 2002 (the "Original Agreement"), as amended by an amendment dated June 16, 2006 (the "Amendment"), under which Mr. Sweatt is eligible to receive a special bonus payable in cash and restricted stock (or stock equivalents or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the restricted stock awards) in connection with the successful development of the Company's new Seasons 52(R) restaurant concept. The following is a brief summary of the material terms of the Original Agreement and the Amendment, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10(h) and 10(i), respectively, and this summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to those documents. Under the Original Agreement, portions of five annual MIP bonus grants that Mr. Sweatt could have received were invested and placed at risk pending a determination by the Company's Board of Directors in June 2006 as to whether Seasons 52 was successful and should be expanded. In fiscal 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, Mr. Sweatt invested all of his bonuses of $419,400, $258,500, $376,900, $537,100 and $586,500, respectively, under the arrangement. The Original Agreement provided that these invested portions would be paid with additional cash and a grant of restricted stock (or stock equivalents or other form of compensation of comparable value for the restricted stock awards) if the Board of Directors determined in June 2006 that Seasons 52 should be approved for expansion, or forfeited if it determined that Seasons 52 should be terminated. The Amendment provides that the Board may also approve an award of 2
50% of the cash and restricted stock (or stock equivalents or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the restricted stock awards) otherwise payable upon successful completion of the project if it determines that Seasons 52 is not yet successfully completed, but should not be terminated and merits further study. At its meeting on June 15, 2006, the Board determined that Seasons 52 merited further review, and approved the 50% award in accordance with the Amendment. The remaining 50% of the possible award was forfeited, and the Original Agreement expired. The Company also entered into a Special Project Bonus Agreement with Mr. Sweatt dated June 16, 2006 ("New Agreement"). The New Agreement provides that the Compensation Committee will review the success of the Company's Seasons 52 restaurant concept at the end of fiscal 2007 and 2008, and may approve cash payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,831,050 based on the success of Seasons 52. If any cash payments are made, Mr. Sweatt will be eligible to receive a restricted stock award (or stock equivalents or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the restricted stock awards) valued at 50% of the amount of the cash payments. A copy of the New Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10(j) to this report, and the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference thereto. Annual incentive awards are granted by the Company's Compensation Committee to the Company's other executive officers under the MIP as well, and are paid in cash. Pursuant to the MIP, performance goals and maximum payouts are established annually at the beginning of each fiscal year. The Compensation Committee meets, typically in June, to evaluate the performance of the Company and each business unit for the fiscal year just ended, and to determine ratings based on actual results compared to the goals approved by the Compensation Committee at the inception of the fiscal year. A description of the performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee for the annual cash bonus under the MIP for fiscal 2007 is provided in Exhibit 10(k) to this report. Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company issued a news release dated June 20, 2006, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 21% Annual and 15% Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Growth", a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 3
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description 10(a) Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(b) Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(c) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (U.S.) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(d) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(e) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (U.S.) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(f) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(g) Form of Performance Stock Units Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(h) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 agreement dated August 16, 2002 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(i) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 agreement, as amended, dated June 16, 2006 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(j) Special Project Bonus Program - Seasons 52 agreement dated June 16, 2006 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(k) Darden Restaurants, Inc. Performance Criteria for Annual Cash Bonus under the Management and Professional Incentive Plan for fiscal 2007. 99 Press Release dated June 20, 2006, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 21% Annual and 15% Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Growth." 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. By: /s/ Paula J. Shives --------------------------------------- Paula J. Shives Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Date: June 20, 2006 5
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description of Exhibit 10(a) Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(b) Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(c) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (U.S.) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(d) Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(e) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (U.S.) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(f) Form of Darden Stock Units Award Agreement (Canada) under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(g) Form of Performance Stock Units Award Agreement under the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. 10(h) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 agreement dated August 16, 2002 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(i) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 agreement, as amended, dated June 16, 2006 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(j) Special Project Bonus Program - Seasons 52 agreement dated June 16, 2006 between Darden Restaurants, Inc. and Blaine Sweatt. 10(k) Darden Restaurants, Inc. Performance Criteria for Annual Cash Bonus under the Management and Professional Incentive Plan for fiscal 2007. 99 Press Release dated June 20, 2006, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 21% Annual and 15% Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Growth." 6

Exhibit 10(a) NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT This certifies that [name] has an option to purchase **[number]* shares of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation. Social Security Number: Grant Date: ___________ , 200_ Purchase Price Per Share: Expiration Date: ___________ , 20__ Type of Option: Non-Qualified Salary or Bonus Replacement Option Yes_____ No_____ Exercisable Date: [vesting schedule] This Stock Option is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Notice of Stock Option Grant has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Notice of Stock Option Grant (the "Notice"). This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Notice (the "Grant Date"). The Company desires to provide you with an opportunity to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), as provided in this Agreement in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Grant of Option. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, the right and option (the "Option") to purchase all or any part of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Notice, on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). 2. Exercise Price. The per share purchase price of the shares subject to the Option shall be the purchase price per share set forth in the attached Notice. 3. Term of Option and Exercisability. The term of the Option shall be for a period of ten years from the Grant Date, terminating at the close of business on the expiration date set forth in the attached Notice (the "Expiration Date") or such shorter period as is prescribed in Sections 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement. The Option shall become exercisable, or vest, on the date or dates set forth in the attached Notice, subject to the provisions of Sections 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement. To the extent the Option is exercisable, you may exercise it in whole or in part, at any time, or from time to time, prior to the termination of the Option. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, from and after a Change of Control (as defined below) the following provisions shall apply:
(a) If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full for a period of six months following the date of the Change of Control. After this six-month period, the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above and in the attached Notice will govern with respect to any unexercised portion of the Option. However, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated within two years after a Change of Control, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (ii) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment. (b) If you are serving on the Board of Directors of the Company but are not an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (a "Non-Employee Director"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. (c) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (ii) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (iii) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Effect of Termination of Employment or End of Board Service. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is not a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, any portion of the Option that was not vested on the date of your termination of employment shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on the date of your termination of employment may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then (A) any portion of the Option that has not vested as of the date of your termination of employment shall vest on a pro rata basis and become immediately exercisable, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of 2
employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested portion of the Option, (B) any portion of the Option that has not vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall be forfeited and (C) any portion of the Option that has vested (including any portion of the Option that has vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions) may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your termination of employment; (ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; (iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement"), then (A) any portion of the Option that has not vested as of the date of your Early Retirement shall vest on a pro rata basis and become immediately exercisable, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested portion of the Option, (B) any portion of the Option that has not vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall be forfeited and (C) any portion of the Option that has vested (including any portion of the Option that has vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions) may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your Early Retirement; or (iv) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution. (b) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that: (i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your termination of employment; 3
(ii) if you retire under Normal Retirement, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; (iii) if you retire under Early Retirement, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your Early Retirement; or (iv) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution. (c) If you are a Non-Employee Director and you cease to serve on the Board of Directors, any portion of the Option that was not vested on your last day of Board service shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on your last day of Board service may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after your last day of Board service, except that: (i) if you have served on the Company's Board of Directors for at least five years, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full on your last day of Board service and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice; (ii) if you die while serving on the Company's Board of Directors, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution; or (iii) if the Option is a Salary Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised for the same period of time that would apply pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(c) if the Option were not a Salary Replacement Option. 6. Non-Competition. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement, if, within two years following your termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company for any reason (including Normal Retirement or Early Retirement), you directly or indirectly (a) own, manage or operate, become or are employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to any enterprise, corporation or business that owns or operates casual dining restaurants anywhere in the United States or Canada (a "Competitor") or (b) you solicit or induce any person who is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company to own, manage or operate, become employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to a Competitor, then 4
your Option will expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice or (ii) on the date that is three months after the date you commenced employment with the Competitor or took the competitive action described above. 7. Method of Exercising Option. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, you may exercise your Option by following the procedures established by the Company from time to time. In addition, you may exercise your Option by written notice to the Company as provided in Section 10(i) of this Agreement that states (i) your election to exercise the Option, (ii) the Grant Date of the Option, (iii) the purchase price of the shares, (iv) the number of shares as to which the Option is being exercised, (v) the manner of payment and (vi) the manner of payment for any income tax withholding amount. The notice shall be signed by you or the Person or Persons exercising the Option. The notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the exercise price for all shares designated in the notice. To the extent that the Option is exercised after your death, the notice of exercise shall also be accompanied by appropriate proof of the right of such Person or Persons to exercise the Option. (b) Payment of the exercise price shall be made to the Company through one or a combination of the following methods: (i) cash, in United States currency (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the Company); or (ii) delivery (either actual delivery or by attestation) of shares of Common Stock acquired by you more than six months prior to the date of exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Option exercise price. You shall represent and warrant in writing that you are the owner of the shares so delivered, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and restrictions, and you shall duly endorse in blank all certificates delivered to the Company. 8. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax adviser regarding the income tax consequences of exercising the Option or any other matters related to this Agreement. If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, in order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of the Option by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered upon exercise of the Option having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the 5
amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 9. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the shares covered by the Option such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Agreement, then the Committee administering the Plan shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of the shares covered by the Option and the exercise price of the Option. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Rights as a Shareholder. Neither you nor your legal representatives shall have any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option unless and until such shares are issued upon exercise of the Option. (c) No Right to Employment or Board Service. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company or to continue to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (d) Option Not Transferable. Except as otherwise provided by the Plan or by the Committee administering the Plan, the Option shall not be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you or, if permissible under applicable law, by your guardian or legal representative. The Option may not be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance of the Option shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. 6
(e) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times during the term of the Option reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (f) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (g) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (h) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (i) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5500 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (j) Notice of Stock Option Grant. This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is attached to and made part of a Notice of Stock Option Grant and shall have no force or effect unless such Notice is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 7

Exhibit 10(b) AWARD CERTIFICATE Restricted Stock Award This certifies that [name] is granted a Restricted Stock Award for **[number]* shares of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation. Social Security Number: Grant Date: _____________ , 200_ Expiration Date of Restricted Period: [June 30, ____] [vesting schedule] This Restricted Stock Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock for that number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Shares"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Shares. With respect to the Shares, you shall be entitled to exercise the rights of a shareholder of Common Stock of the Company, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive cash dividends thereon as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 5 hereof. Your rights with respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the
restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture; Automatic Conversion to Restricted Stock Units; Deposit Shares. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, except that: (i) if (A) the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, (B) your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70 and (C) you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, then the Shares will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Shares, and your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; (ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the restrictions with respect to all Shares shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement; (iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement") and you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, the Shares will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full 2
months in the vesting period for any unvested Shares, and your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or (iv) if you die prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the restrictions with respect to all Shares shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Shares which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. (b) If you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, and if, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Automatic Conversion Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then (i) as of the Automatic Conversion Date, your rights to all of the Shares that are unvested on the Automatic Conversion Date shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, and (ii) you shall automatically receive, effective as of the Automatic Conversion Date, an award of restricted stock units under the Plan for that number of units equal to the number of Shares so forfeited, dated as of the Grant Date, with the same vesting schedule as provided in this Agreement and containing such other terms and conditions as are set forth in or established under the Plan. (c) If, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Deposit Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then you may elect to place on deposit with the Company one personally owned share of Common Stock (the "Deposit Shares") for every two Shares that are unvested on the Deposit Date. If you withdraw any or all of the Deposit Shares before the Shares have vested, two Shares that are unvested will be forfeited for each Deposit Share withdrawn. The Company will release to you one Deposit Share for every two Shares that vest following the Deposit Date. In lieu of physical deposit of Share certificates with the Company, the Company may accept such other form or evidence of deposit as it deems appropriate. 6. Restriction on Transfer. Until the Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Shares may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Shares. 3
7. Issuance and Custody of Certificates. (a) The Company shall cause the Shares to be issued in your name, either by book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. The Shares shall be restricted from transfer and shall be subject to an appropriate stop-transfer order. If any certificate is issued, the certificate shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to the Shares. (b) If any certificate is issued, you shall be required to execute and deliver to the Company a stock power or stock powers relating to the Shares as a condition to the receipt of this Award of Restricted Stock. (c) After any Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause such vested Shares (less any shares withheld to pay taxes), free of the restrictions and/or legend described in Section 7(a) hereof, to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be. 8. Distributions and Adjustments. (a) If any Shares vest subsequent to any change in the number or character of the Common Stock of the Company (through any stock dividend or other distribution, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or otherwise) occurring after the Grant Date, you shall then receive upon such vesting the number and type of securities or other consideration which you would have received if such Shares had vested prior to the event changing the number or character of the outstanding Common Stock. (b) Any additional shares of Common Stock of the Company, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or other cash distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares to which they relate and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary. (c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with respect to the Shares shall be distributed to you at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Shares, payment of dividends on the Shares, the vesting of the Shares and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state or local income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state or local payroll, 4
withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional Share but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (d) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (e) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (f) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: 5
Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (g) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6

Exhibit 10(c) AWARD CERTIFICATE Restricted Stock Units Award (United States) This certifies that [name] is granted an Award of **[number]* Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation, on the vesting date or dates shown below. Social Security Number: Grant Date: ____________, 200_ Vesting Date[s]: [___________, ____][vesting schedule] This Restricted Stock Units Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (United States) This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Restricted Stock Units"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units. (a) The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. (b) As long as you hold Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, the Company shall make a cash payment to you, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders of Common Stock generally, in the amount equal to the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per share of Common Stock on such date multiplied by the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, less any tax withholding amount applicable to such payment. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or
dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, except that: (i) if (A) the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, (B) your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70 and (C) you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, then the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Restricted Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; (ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become 2
immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement; (iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement") and you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Restricted Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or (iv) if you die prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Restricted Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 6. Restriction on Transfer. None of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Restricted Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Restricted Stock Units. 7. Payment of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit. Following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to pay taxes) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. The Company will not deliver 3
any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Restricted Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the receipt of shares of Common Stock, and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the 4
Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 5

Exhibit 10(d) AWARD CERTIFICATE Restricted Stock Units Award (Canada) This certifies that [name] is granted an Award of **[number]* Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation, on the vesting date or dates shown below. Social Insurance Number: Grant Date: _____________ , 200_ Vesting Date[s]: [__________, _____][vesting schedule] This Restricted Stock Units Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (Canada) This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Restricted Stock Units, each Restricted Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Restricted Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Restricted Stock Units"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Restricted Stock Units. (a) The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. (b) As long as you hold Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, the Company shall make a cash payment to you, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders of Common Stock generally, in the amount equal to the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per share of Common Stock on such date multiplied by the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, less any withholding on account of taxes or other similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions) in respect of such payment.
3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, except that: (i) if (A) the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, (B) your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70 and (C) you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, then the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of notice of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of notice of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Restricted Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; 2
(ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement; (iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement") and you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, the Restricted Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Restricted Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or (iv) if you die prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Restricted Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Restricted Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Restricted Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 6. Restriction on Transfer. None of the Restricted Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Restricted Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Restricted Stock Units. 7. Payment of Restricted Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Restricted Stock Units vest, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After any Restricted Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit. Subject to deductions of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to satisfy such amounts) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar 3
month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Any shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to this Award Agreement shall be newly issued shares. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Restricted Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the receipt of cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the receipt of shares of Common Stock, and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign income tax or other laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, or similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions), are collected from you or withheld from any amounts (including shares of Common Stock) paid or delivered to you pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax or other similar amount to be withheld is determined. 4
10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal, provincial or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 5

Exhibit 10(e) AWARD CERTIFICATE Darden Stock Units Award (United States) This certifies that [name] is granted an Award of **[number]* Darden Stock Units, each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates shown below, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in the attached Award Agreement) of one share of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation. Social Security Number: Grant Date: ________________ , 200__ Vesting Date[s]: [_________, _____][vesting schedule] This Darden Stock Units Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Darden Stock Units Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN DARDEN STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (United States) This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Darden Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Darden Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Darden Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Darden Stock Units"), each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates set forth in the attached Award Certificate, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in Section 7 hereof) of one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Darden Stock Units. The Darden Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement are not shares of Common Stock and do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Darden Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Darden Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, except that: (a) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Darden Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; (b) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Darden Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement; (c) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement"), the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Darden Stock Units, 2
and your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or (d) if you die prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Darden Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Darden Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 6. Restriction on Transfer. None of the Darden Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Darden Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Darden Stock Units. 7. Payment of Darden Stock Units. No cash shall be paid to you prior to the date on which the applicable Darden Stock Units vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly make a cash payment to you in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit, subject to the payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued hereunder. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated as set forth below: (a) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is a Trading Day (as defined below), the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (i) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date and (ii) dividing such sum by two. (b) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is not a Trading Day, the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (i) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the vesting date and (ii) dividing such sum by two. 3
(c) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Daily Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean, for any Trading Day, the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated by (i) adding the U.S. dollar amount of each trade (computed as the transaction price times the number of shares of Common Stock traded in that transaction) during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day and (ii) dividing such sum by the total number of shares of Common Stock traded during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day. (d) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Trading Day" shall mean a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Darden Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Darden Stock Units. 9. Taxes. You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Darden Stock Units, the vesting of the Darden Stock Units, the receipt of cash upon the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, the Company will satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units by withholding a portion of the cash otherwise to be delivered equal to the amount of such taxes. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the 4
Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (d) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (e) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (f) Award Certificate. This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 5

Exhibit 10(f) AWARD CERTIFICATE Darden Stock Units Award (Canada) This certifies that [name] is granted an Award of **[number]* Darden Stock Units, each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates shown below, one share of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation, or, at the election of the holder, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in the attached Award Agreement) of one such share of Common Stock. Social Insurance Number: Grant Date: _______________ , 200_ Vesting Date[s]: [_________, _____][vesting schedule] This Darden Stock Units Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Darden Stock Units Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN DARDEN STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT (Canada) This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you a number of Darden Stock Units, subject to the terms and conditions provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Darden Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Darden Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Darden Stock Units"), each Darden Stock Unit representing the right to receive, on the vesting date or dates set forth in the attached Award Certificate, one share of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), or, at your election, a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined in Section 7(b) hereof) of one share of Common Stock, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Darden Stock Units. The Darden Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement are not shares of Common Stock and do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. 3. Vesting. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Darden Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Darden Stock Units shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all of the Darden Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, except that: (a) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of notice of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of notice of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Darden Stock Units, and your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; (b) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Darden Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement; (c) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement"), the Darden Stock Units will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Darden Stock Units, 2
and your rights to all of the unvested Darden Stock Units shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or (d) if you die prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Darden Stock Units and the restrictions with respect to all Darden Stock Units shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Darden Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. 6. Restriction on Transfer. None of the Darden Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Darden Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Darden Stock Units. 7. Payment of Darden Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock; Election to Receive Cash in Lieu of Common Stock. (a) No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Darden Stock Units vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Award Agreement. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, and provided that you have not elected to receive cash pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit. Subject to deductions of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to satisfy such amounts) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Any shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to this Award Agreement shall be newly issued shares. (b) In lieu of receiving shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof, you may elect to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit. In order to be effective, any such election must be made in writing delivered to the Company at the address set forth in Section 10(g) hereof not later than 30 days prior to the vesting date of the applicable Darden Stock Units. After a Darden Stock Unit vests pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 3
hereof for which the Company has received a notice complying with the preceding sentence, the Company shall promptly make a cash payment to you in Canadian Dollars in an amount equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price of one share of Common Stock for each vested Darden Stock Unit multiplied by the exchange rate selected by the Company for the conversion of United States Dollars into Canadian Dollars in effect on the vesting date, subject to the deduction of any amounts on account of taxes or other similar payments pursuant to Section 9 hereof; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated as set forth below: (i) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is a Trading Day (as defined below), the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (A) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date and (B) dividing such sum by two. (ii) If the vesting date for the Darden Stock Unit is not a Trading Day, the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be calculated by (A) adding the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the vesting date to the Daily Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the vesting date and (B) dividing such sum by two. (iii) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Daily Volume Weighted Average Price" shall mean, for any Trading Day, the U.S. dollar amount per share of Common Stock calculated by (A) adding the U.S. dollar amount of each trade (computed as the transaction price times the number of shares of Common Stock traded in that transaction) during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day and (B) dividing such sum by the total number of shares of Common Stock traded during the period commencing at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and ending at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on such Trading Day. (iv) For purposes of this Award Agreement, "Trading Day" shall mean a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other 4
securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Darden Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Darden Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Darden Stock Units, the vesting of the Darden Stock Units, the receipt of shares of Common Stock or cash upon the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign income tax or other laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, provincial, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, or similar amounts (including pension plan and employment insurance contributions), are collected from you or withheld from any amounts (including shares of Common Stock) paid or delivered to you pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax or other similar amount to be withheld is determined. (c) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, the Company will satisfy any applicable tax or other withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Darden Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of cash pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof by withholding a portion of the cash otherwise to be delivered equal to the amount of such taxes or other amounts required to be withheld. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the 5
Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Darden Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal, provincial or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Darden Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6

Exhibit 10(g) AWARD CERTIFICATE Performance Stock Units Award This certifies that [name] is granted an Award of **[number]* Performance Stock Units, representing the opportunity to earn shares of Common Stock, no par value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation, on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the attached Performance Stock Units Award Agreement. Interim Grant Yes ____ No _____ Annual Performance Period Annual Performance Stock Units Fiscal 20__ Fiscal 20__ Fiscal 20__ Fiscal 20__ Fiscal 20__ Social Security Number: Grant Date: ______________ , 200_ Awarded (subject to forfeiture) subject to the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Yes ____ No _____ Plan: This Performance Stock Units Award is governed by, and subject in all respects to, the terms and conditions of the Performance Stock Units Award Agreement, a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this document, and the Darden Restaurants, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, a copy of which is available upon request. This Award Certificate has been duly executed, by manual or facsimile signature, on behalf of Darden Restaurants, Inc. [signature] [signature] Chairman of the Board DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Senior Vice President Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and Secretary
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. 2002 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS AWARD AGREEMENT This Performance Stock Units Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date"). The Company wishes to award to you Performance Stock Units representing the opportunity to earn shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows: 1. Award of Performance Stock Units. The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Performance Stock Units for that number of Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Performance Stock Units"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. 2. Rights with Respect to the Performance Stock Units. (a) The Performance Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement do not and shall not give you any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of Common Stock. Your rights with respect to the Performance Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance Stock Units lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof. (b) As long as you hold Performance Stock Units granted pursuant to the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, the Company shall make a cash payment to you, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders of Common Stock generally, in the amount equal to the dollar amount of the cash dividend paid per share of Common Stock on such date multiplied by the number of Annual Performance Stock Units (as defined below) relating to any Annual Performance Period (as defined below) for which a determination as to vesting or forfeiture has not yet occurred pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, less any tax withholding amount applicable to such payment. 3. Vesting. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Performance Stock Units shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Performance Stock Units shall lapse, on
the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in this Agreement if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates. (b) Twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Performance Stock Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Annual Performance Stock Units") shall be targeted for vesting following the end of each of the first five fiscal years ending after the Grant Date (the "Annual Performance Periods"); provided, however, that if the Award Certificate attached to this Performance Stock Units Award Agreement states that this Performance Stock Units Award is an Interim Grant, then the number of Annual Performance Stock Units for the first Annual Performance Period shall be zero and the number of Annual Performance Stock Units for each of the second, third, fourth and fifth Annual Performance Periods shall be twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of Performance Stock Units set forth in the attached Award Certificate. The number of Annual Performance Stock Units for each Annual Performance Period is set forth in the attached Award Certificate. The number of Annual Performance Stock Units for any Annual Performance Period shall not be increased or decreased as a result of the number of Annual Performance Stock Units that vested or were forfeited for any prior Annual Performance Period. (c) The number of Annual Performance Stock Units that vest, if any, following the end of the applicable Annual Performance Period shall be determined by multiplying the Annual Performance Stock Units for such Annual Performance Period by the Vesting Percentage, calculated as set forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement, and may range from zero to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Annual Performance Stock Units. (d) The calculations under this Section 3 shall be made on or before the June 30 immediately following the end of the applicable Annual Performance Period and any vesting resulting from such calculations shall be effective as of that June 30. Any Annual Performance Stock Units that do not vest following the end of such Annual Performance Period pursuant to the terms of this Section 3 shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, as of that June 30. (e) The Committee administering the Plan shall have the authority to make any determinations regarding questions arising from the application of the provisions of this Section 3, which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on you and the Company. 4. Change of Control. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Annual Performance Stock Units relating to any Annual Performance Period for which a determination as to vesting or forfeiture has not yet occurred pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the restrictions with respect to all such Annual Performance Stock Units shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: 2
(a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors; (b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or (c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 5. Early Vesting; Forfeiture. (a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting or forfeiture of all Annual Performance Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the Annual Performance Stock Units relating to any Annual Performance Period for which a determination as to vesting or forfeiture has not yet occurred pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to receive cash payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, except that: (i) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting or forfeiture of all Annual Performance Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all of the Annual Performance Stock Units relating to any Annual Performance Period for which a determination as to vesting or forfeiture has not yet occurred pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the restrictions with respect to all such Annual Performance Stock Units shall lapse, on the date of your Normal Retirement; or (ii) if you die prior to the vesting or forfeiture of all Annual Performance Stock Units pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all of the Annual Performance Stock Units relating to any Annual Performance Period for which a determination as to vesting or forfeiture has not yet occurred pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the restrictions with respect to all such Annual Performance Stock Units shall lapse, on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Performance Stock Units which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. (b) If the Award Certificate attached to this Performance Stock Units Award Agreement states that this Performance Stock Units Award has been awarded subject to the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), then this Performance Stock Units Award shall be cancelled, forfeited and returned to the Company unless 3
all of the requirements set forth in the MIP for the year to which the grant of this Performance Stock Units Award relates are satisfied. 6. Restriction on Transfer. None of the Performance Stock Units may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Performance Stock Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Performance Stock Units. 7. Payment of Performance Stock Units; Issuance of Common Stock. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued to you prior to the date on which the applicable Performance Stock Units vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement. After any Performance Stock Units vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause to be issued in your name one share of Common Stock for each vested Performance Stock Unit. Following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause the shares of Common Stock (less any shares withheld to pay taxes) to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be; provided, however, that any distribution to any "specified employee" (as determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code) on account of a separation from service shall be made as soon as practicable after the first day of the calendar month which occurs six calendar months after such separation from service, but in no event later than the 15th day of the third month following the calendar year in which the end of such six-month period occurs. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. 8. Adjustments. In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment of the Performance Stock Units is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the attached Award Certificate and this Agreement, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of shares subject to the Performance Stock Units. 9. Taxes. (a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Performance Stock Units, the receipt of cash 4
payments pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the vesting of the Performance Stock Units and the receipt of shares of Common Stock, and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you. (b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of the Performance Stock Units and the corresponding receipt of shares of Common Stock by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share of Common Stock. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. 10. General Provisions. (a) Interpretations. This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest. (b) No Right to Employment. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) Reservation of Shares. The Company shall at all times prior to the vesting of the Performance Stock Units reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. (d) Securities Matters. The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied. (e) Headings. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way 5
material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. (f) Governing Law. The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement. (g) Notices. You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address: Darden Restaurants, Inc. Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive Orlando, FL 32809 (h) Award Certificate. This Performance Stock Units Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you. * * * * * * * * 6
Exhibit A VESTING OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS The number of Annual Performance Stock Units that shall vest, if any, following the end of the applicable Annual Performance Period shall be determined by multiplying the number of Annual Performance Stock Units for such Annual Performance Period by the "Vesting Percentage," as determined below, provided that the maximum Vesting Percentage for any Annual Performance Period shall be 150% of the Annual Performance Stock Units. Vesting Percentage = 5 x (Total Annual Sales Growth x Sales Multiple x ROGI Multiple) "Total Annual Sales Growth" shall be as determined by the Company. The "Sales Multiple" shall be determined as follows: --------------------------------------- --------------------------- Total Annual Sales Growth* Sales Multiple --------------------------------------- --------------------------- Less than 4.00% 0 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 4.00% to 6.99% 2.00 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 7.00% to 7.99% 2.25 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 8.00% to 8.99% 2.50 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 9.00% to 9.99% 2.75 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 10.00% or Greater 3.00 ------------------------------------------------------------------- *For the fiscal years ending May 27, 2007 and May 25, 2008, Total Annual Sales Growth shall be increased by 1.30% ------------------------------------------------------------------- The "ROGI Multiple" shall be determined as follows: ------------------------------------------------------------------- ROGI in Excess of ROGI Hurdle* ROGI Multiple --------------------------------------- --------------------------- -1.00% or Less 0.75 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- -0.99% to 0.99% 1.00 --------------------------------------- --------------------------- 1.00% or Greater 1.25 ------------------------------------------------------------------- *For the fiscal years ending May 27, 2007 and May 25, 2008, ROGI shall be compared to plan. ------------------------------------------------------------------- "ROGI" is the return on gross investment for new and relocated restaurants, as determined by the Company. The "ROGI Hurdle" is the hurdle rate for ROGI set each year by the Company. The ROGI Multiple shall automatically be set at 1.00 for any fiscal year if total sales for new and relocated restaurants that reached their eighteen-month anniversary during such fiscal year are less than 1% of the Company's total sales for such fiscal year, as determined by the Company. The Vesting Percentage shall be rounded to the nearest 1.0%, with .5% being rounded up. The number of Annual Performance Stock Units that vest pursuant to the Vesting Percentage shall be rounded to the nearest whole number, with .5 being rounded up. A-1

Exhibit 10(h) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 Effective Date: May 27, 2002 Blaine Sweatt Purpose This Special Project is based on the development of C5, a new restaurant concept by Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company"). In recognition of the exceptional level of effort and commitment required of the New Business team to effectively develop the new concept, and the potential to significantly impact shareholder value, the New Business Development team will be placed on a Special Project Incentive as provided for within the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan ("MIP"). The Term of Special Project The C5 project will be in effect for a defined period of four years, FY03 through FY06. Components of the C5 Incentive Determination 1. During the project period, the participant's annual incentive will be calculated according to the normal MIP formula (earned salary x NIP x individual rating x company rating), based on the individual rating assigned to the participant, and the unit rating for Darden. 2. Each participant is provided a one-time opportunity to elect their participation level in the Special Project Incentive. The participant may elect to invest, and place at risk, a percentage of the MIP annual incentives paid during the period from June 2002 through July 2006, until completion or termination of the C5 project. You may elect to invest 0%, 50%, or 100% of your annual MIP incentive. 3. Upon successful completion of the Special Project, the invested Special Project Incentive will be recalculated using a 2.0 company rating. The following shows the example calculation for a single year. 4. Successful completion of the project will be determined solely by the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants through approval of the C5 concept for expansion. The approval/ expansion decision is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise as to whether the decision is reasonable or based on any other factor, e.g. overall performance of the company, capital considerations, etc. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors will conduct an initial review of the success of the project no later than June 2006.
Special Project Incentive Program Page 2 5. Upon successful completion of the project, as determined solely by the Board of Directors approval of the C5 concept for expansion, the Special Project Incentive Investments will be paid out at double the recalculated invested amount. 6. If the C5 project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants for issues related to the operating or financial performance of the C5 project, all Special Project Incentive Investments will be forfeited in their entirety. 7. If the C5 project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board of Directors and if operating performance of the C5 project is deemed to be strong, the Compensation Committee may authorize that all Special Project Incentive Investments will be returned, with 6% interest credited back to the normal MIP payment date. 8. If the project is discontinued or terminated under extraordinary circumstances not contemplated by this agreement, the Compensation Committee may approve full or partial refund of participant investments. 9. If, at the end of the four-year project period, the C5 concept is not determined to be ready for expansion and the Company or the Board of Directors decides that more time is necessary for its determination, all deferred amounts will remain held until the determination is made. In that case, the Company may elect to extend the Special Project Incentive and afford all participants an opportunity to continue their investment, or return to the normal MIP plan provisions for the year FY07. If the Company does not extend the Special Project Incentive, all participants will return to the normal MIP plan provisions for the year FY07. Acceleration Provision If the C5 Special Project is successfully completed prior to FY06, in addition to the Special Project Incentive payout based on investments made to date, participants will receive an additional partial year award amount calculated as follows: (Salary x NIP x 1.5 x 2.0) divided by 2. Eligibility To be eligible for the Special Project Incentive payout the participant must be an active employee of, a retiree (i.e., age 55 or older with 5 or more years of Company tenure) of, or have qualified for long-term disability status from, Darden Restaurants, Inc. on the date of the project is declared to be successfully completed. Participants have no vested rights to payments until the Board of Directors declares the project successfully completed. Participants will continue to be eligible for the C5 Special Project Incentive bonus until the earliest of the following occurs: >> The C5 bonus is paid to the participant; or >> The C5 project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board of Directors for any reason; or >> The end of FY06, or such later date as the project may be extended pursuant to paragraph 7 above. If a participant undertakes work on another Special Project, other than C5, and is therefore simultaneously involved in two or more Special Project assignments, the participant's opportunity under this program will be not reduced.
Special Project Incentive Program Page 3 A participant who directly or indirectly, becomes an employee, officer, director, manager, consultant or who otherwise becomes affiliated with or provides services to any employer, entity, enterprise or company which directly competes with the Company's restaurant business will forfeit the Special Project Incentive. Termination of Employment If the participant is involuntarily terminated for the convenience of the Company and for reasons other than cause, the Special Project Incentive Investments will be refunded in full without interest. FlexComp Awards Earnable compensation defines the wages used for calculating the participant's FlexComp awards. If the C5 Special Project Incentive is paid to the participant, earnable compensation for the Special Project Incentive will be limited to the amount of normal MIP bonus earned and invested. The FlexComp Award will be calculated and paid in the fiscal year in which the incentive is ultimately paid. Restricted Stock Matching Awards Each year, participants will be eligible for a Restricted Stock Matching Award at their normal restricted stock percentage level, based on any MIP award actually paid to the participant (calculated MIP award minus investment). If the C5 Special Project Incentive is paid to the participant, the participant will be eligible to receive a Restricted Stock Matching Award, based on their normal restricted stock percentage level. The restricted stock matching provisions of the MIP for the fiscal year in which such bonus is paid, including the personal deposit share requirement, will govern this award. The Company reserves the right to substitute cash, deferred compensation, stock equivalents, or other form of compensation of comparable value for the Restricted Stock Matching Awards. Ownership of Concept All ownership of the concept, including designs, trademarks and all intellectual or other property, shall be vested in and owned by the company at all times, whether or not the concept is determined to be successful or otherwise. Additional Conditions The terms and conditions stated in this document do not constitute a contract of employment nor a guarantee of future benefits except as specifically stated. In addition, this Special Project Incentive - C5 is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of the MIP and is not intended to supercede such terms, conditions, and limitations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no payment will be made under the terms of this Special Project Incentive - C5 unless the requirements of Part (III)(C) of the MIP are met, as certified by the Committee, and any such payment will be limited in accordance with the terms of Part (III)(C) of the MIP. Any dispute or disagreement concerning this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and will be subject to binding arbitration in Orlando, Florida in accordance with the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association. /s/ Blaine Sweatt 8/16/02 /s/ Dan Lyons 8/26/02 - ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- Blaine Sweatt Date Dan Lyons Date President, New Business Division Senior Vice President, Human Resources /s/ Jon Reiker 8/16/02 - ------------------------------------- Jon Reiker Date Senior Vice President, Compensation & Benefits

Exhibit 10(i) Special Project Incentive Program - C5 Effective Date: May 27, 2002, as amended effective as of January 1, 2005 Blaine Sweatt Purpose This Special Project is based on the development of C5, a new restaurant concept by Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company"). In recognition of the exceptional level of effort and commitment required of the New Business team to effectively develop the new concept, and the potential to significantly impact shareholder value, the New Business Development team will be placed on a Special Project Incentive as provided for within the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan ("MIP"). The Term of Special Project The C5 project will be in effect for a defined period beginning on the Effective Date and continuing through FY06 (the "Period"). Components of the C5 Incentive Determination 1. During the project period, the participant's annual incentive will be calculated according to the normal MIP formula (earned salary x NIP x individual rating x company rating), based on the individual rating assigned to the participant, and the unit rating for Darden. 2. Each participant is provided a one-time opportunity to elect their participation level in the Special Project Incentive. The participant may elect to forego, and place at risk, a percentage of the five (5) MIP annual incentives otherwise payable during the Period, until completion or termination of the C5 project. The participant may elect to forego 0%, 50%, or 100% of the participant's annual MIP incentive. 3. Upon successful completion of the Special Project, the Special Project Incentive will be recalculated using a 2.0 company rating. The following shows the example calculation for a single year. Page 1
4. Successful completion of the project will be determined solely by the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants through approval of the C5 concept for expansion. The approval/expansion decision is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise as to whether the decision is reasonable or based on any other factor, e.g. overall performance of the company, capital considerations, etc. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors will conduct an initial review of the success of the project no later than June 2006. 5. Subject to the "Eligibility" provisions below, if, at the end of the Period, there has been a successful completion of the project, as determined solely by the Board of Directors approval of the C5 concept for expansion, the Special Project Incentive amounts will be paid out as soon as practicable after such determination is made at double the recalculated Special Project Incentive amount. 6. If, at the end of the Period, the C5 project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants for any reason, all Special Project Incentive amounts will be forfeited in their entirety. 7. Subject to the "Eligibility" provisions below, if, at the end of the Period, the Board of Directors has not determined that the project has been successfully completed, and the C5 project is not discontinued or terminated, the Compensation Committee may approve a payment to the participant of fifty percent (50%) of the amount otherwise payable under paragraph 5 as if there had been a successful completion of the project. Any such payment shall be made no later than July 31, 2006. The participant shall have no right to any payment under this paragraph 7 and if the Compensation Committee determines, in its sole discretion, to make any such payment, the payment will be in satisfaction of all rights or entitlements to which the participant might otherwise be entitled under this Special Project Incentive Program. Eligibility To be eligible for the Special Project Incentive payout, the participant must be an active employee of Darden Restaurants, Inc. at the end of the Period and at that time the Compensation Committee determines that an amount is payable. Participants have no vested rights to payments until and unless the Board of Directors declares the project successfully completed or the Compensation Committee determines that an amount is otherwise payable. Participants will continue to be eligible for the C5 Special Project Incentive bonus until the earliest of the following occurs: >> The C5 bonus is paid to the participant; or >> The C5 project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board of Directors for any reason; or >> The end of FY06. If a participant undertakes work on another Special Project, other than C5, and is therefore simultaneously involved in two or more Special Project assignments, the participant's opportunity under this program will be not reduced. A participant who directly or indirectly, becomes an employee, officer, director, manager, consultant or who otherwise becomes affiliated with or provides services to any employer, entity, enterprise or company which directly competes with the Company's restaurant business will forfeit all rights or entitlements to the Special Project Incentive. FlexComp Awards Earnable compensation defines the wages used for calculating the participant's FlexComp awards. If either the C5 Special Project Incentive or the discretionary payment described in paragraph 7 is paid to the participant, earnable compensation for FlexComp award purposes will be based solely on the elected amount of annual MIP given up by the participant. The FlexComp Page 2
Award will be calculated and paid in the fiscal year in which the amount under this agreement is ultimately paid. Restricted Stock Awards Each year, participants will be eligible for a Restricted Stock Award at their normal restricted stock level. The actual Restricted Stock Award granted will be reduced by the number of shares equal to the shares given up under the former Restricted Stock Matching (RSM) program in order to participate in this C5 Special Project Incentive agreement. The calculation of this number of shares will occur as follows: MIP award actually given up X the former RSM Percentage (50%) / the Darden common stock price on the date of grant = the number of shares by which the participant's Restricted Stock Award will be reduced. If any portion of the C5 Special Project Incentive is paid under paragraphs 5 or 7 to the participant, the participant will be eligible to receive a Restricted Stock Award equal to 50% of the amount paid hereunder. The Company reserves the right to substitute cash, stock equivalents, or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the Restricted Stock Awards. Ownership of Concept All ownership of the concept, including designs, trademarks and all intellectual or other property, shall be vested in and owned by the company at all times, whether or not the concept is determined to be successful or otherwise. Additional Conditions The terms and conditions stated in this document do not constitute a contract of employment nor a guarantee of future benefits except as specifically stated. In addition, this Special Project Incentive - C5 is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of the MIP and is not intended to supercede such terms, conditions, and limitations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no payment will be made under the terms of this Special Project Incentive - C5 unless the requirements of Part (III)(C) of the MIP are met and any such payment will be limited in accordance with the terms of Part (III)(C) of the MIP. Any dispute or disagreement concerning this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and will be subject to binding arbitration in Orlando, Florida in accordance with the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association. By signing below, the participant acknowledges that this amended and restated agreement is in complete substitution for the agreement dated May 27, 2002 and that the participant is not entitled to any other amounts or interests under this or any predecessor Special Project Incentive Program, other than as stated herein. The participant further agrees and understands that this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the matters dealt with herein, and supersedes all previous proposals, negotiations, representations, commitments, writings, agreements, documents and all other communications between the parties, both oral and written, with respect to such matters. /s/ Blaine Sweatt /s/ Dan Lyons 6/16/06 - ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- Blaine Sweatt Date Dan Lyons Date President, New Business Division Senior Vice President, Human Resources /s/ Jack Snow 6/16/06 - ------------------------------------ Jack Snow Date Senior Vice President, Compensation & Benefits Page 3

Exhibit 10(j) Special Project Bonus Program - Seasons 52 Effective Date: May 29, 2006 Blaine Sweatt Purpose This Special Project Bonus Program is based on the further development of Seasons 52 into a financially viable restaurant concept (the "Project"). In recognition of the exceptional level of effort and commitment required of the New Business team to successfully complete the Project, and the potential to significantly impact Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") and its shareholder value, the New Business Development team will be placed on a Special Project Bonus Program as provided for within the Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management and Professional Incentive Plan ("MIP"). The Term of Special Project The Special Project Bonus Program will be in effect for a defined period of two years, FY07 through FY08. Components of the Special Project Bonus Program Award 1. Upon successful completion of the Project, the individual will be entitled to a Special Project Bonus Program payment in the amount of $2,831,050 payable, if at all, at the times set forth in paragraphs 4 through 7, and subject to the further terms and conditions of this Program agreement. 2. Successful completion of the Project will be determined solely by the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). The successful completion decision is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise as to whether the decision is reasonable. 3. Subject to paragraph 8, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") shall conduct an initial review of the success of the Project as soon as practicable after the end of FY07. At such time, if the Board determines not to pay any amounts under paragraph 4 (full pay) or paragraph 5 (partial pay), no amounts will be paid until and unless the conditions set forth in paragraph 6 or paragraph 7 apply. 4. Full Payment after Initial Review. Subject to the "Eligibility" and "Additional Conditions" provisions below, if there has been a successful completion of the Project as of the end of FY07, as determined solely by the Board, the Special Project Bonus amounts will be paid to the participant as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than August 31, 2007. In such case, all amounts paid under this paragraph 4 will be in satisfaction of all rights or entitlements to which the participant might otherwise be entitled under this Program and no further amounts will be owed hereunder at any later date. Any decision to make a payment (or not make a payment) under this paragraph 4 is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise and the Board's and Committee's decisions are final and binding on all parties. 5. Partial Payment after Initial Review. Subject to the "Eligibility" and "Additional Conditions" provisions below, if, at the end of FY07, the Board has not determined that the Project has been successfully completed, and the Project is not discontinued or terminated, the Committee may approve a payment to the participant of such amount as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines is appropriate under the circumstances. The participant shall have no right to any payment under this paragraph 5. If the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, to make any such
Special Project Bonus Program Page 2 payment, the payment will constitute a Special Project Bonus for purposes of this Agreement. The amount under this paragraph 5 will be paid no later than August 31, 2007, and will be taken into account in calculating any amounts awarded under paragraph 6 or paragraph 7. Any decision to make a payment (or not make a payment) under this paragraph 5 is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise and the Committee's decision is final and binding on all parties. 6. Full Payment after Second Review. Unless a full payment is made under paragraph 4, or the Project is discontinued or terminated under paragraph 8, the Committee shall conduct a second review of the success of the Project at any time prior to July 2008. Subject to the "Eligibility" and "Additional Conditions" provisions below, if there has been a successful completion of the Project, as determined solely by the Board, the Special Project Bonus amounts (less any amounts that are paid pursuant to paragraph 5) will be paid to the participant as soon as practicable thereafter, but no later than August 31, 2008. In such case, all amounts paid under this paragraph 6 (together with any amounts paid under paragraph 5) will be in satisfaction of all rights or entitlements to which the participant might otherwise be entitled under this Program and no further amounts will be owed hereunder at any later date. Any decision to make a payment (or not make a payment) under this paragraph 6 is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise and the Committee's decisions are final and binding on all parties. 7. Partial Payment after Second Review. Subject to the "Eligibility" and "Additional Conditions" provisions below, if, at the time of the second review described in paragraph 6, the Board has not determined that the Project has been successfully completed, and the Project is not discontinued or terminated, the Committee may approve a payment to the participant of such amount as the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines is appropriate under the circumstances. The participant shall have no right to any payment under this paragraph 7. If the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, to make any such payment, the payment (together with any payment made under paragraph 5) will constitute a Special Project Bonus for purposes of this Agreement. The amount under this paragraph 7 will be paid no later than August 31, 2008, and (together with any amount paid under paragraph 5) will be in satisfaction of all rights or entitlements to which the participant might otherwise be entitled under this Program. Any decision to make a payment (or not make a payment) under this paragraph 7 is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise and the Committee's decision is final and binding on all parties. 8. Discontinuance or Termination. If, at any time during the two-year Project period, the Project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board for any reason, all Special Project Bonus payments not otherwise paid earlier will not be paid. The decision to discontinue or terminate the Project is not subject to review by arbitration or otherwise as to whether the decision is reasonable. 9. Determinations Prior to Effective Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if, for any reason, prior to the Effective Date, the Company or the Board determines that the Project has been successfully completed or discontinues or terminates the Project, the participant shall not receive any payments pursuant to this Program. Eligibility To be eligible for the Special Project Bonus payout, the participant must be an active employee of a Company subsidiary on the date the Project is determined to be successfully completed (or on the date the Committee determines that an amount is otherwise payable), if it is so determined, or must have retired from a Company subsidiary after having attained age 55 or older with 10 or more years of Company
Special Project Bonus Program Page 3 tenure or after having qualified for long-term disability status, after the effective date of this Program but before the Committee's determination. If a participant terminates employment for any other reason prior to the time the Committee determines that an amount is otherwise payable, the participant will lose any right to any amounts hereunder. Participants have no vested rights to payments until and unless the Board determines the Project successfully completed or the Committee determines that an amount is otherwise payable. Participants will continue to be eligible for the Special Project Bonus payment until the earliest of the following occurs: >> The Special Project Bonus is paid to the participant; or >> The Project is discontinued or terminated by the Company or the Board for any reason; or >> The end of FY08. If a participant undertakes work on another special project, other than Seasons 52, and is therefore simultaneously involved in two or more special project assignments, the participant's opportunity under this program will be not reduced. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a participant who directly or indirectly, becomes an employee, officer, director, manager, consultant or who otherwise becomes affiliated with or provides services to any employer, entity, enterprise or company which directly competes with the Company's restaurant business will forfeit all rights or entitlements to the Special Project Bonus. MIP Participation Participation in this Special Project Bonus Program will not affect participant's participation under the MIP Plan in accordance with its terms. FlexComp Participation Earnable compensation defines the wages used for calculating the participant's FlexComp awards. If a Special Project Bonus award is paid under this agreement, such amount shall not be included in "earnable compensation" for FlexComp award purposes. Restricted Stock Awards If the Special Project Bonus award is paid to the participant, the participant will be eligible to receive a Restricted Stock Award equal to 50% of the Special Project Bonus amount. The Company reserves the right to substitute cash, stock equivalents, or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the Restricted Stock Awards. Ownership of Concept All ownership of the concept, including designs, trademarks and all intellectual or other property, shall be vested in and owned by the Company at all times, whether or not the concept is determined to be successful or otherwise. Additional Conditions The terms and conditions stated in this document do not constitute a contract of employment nor a guarantee of future benefits except as specifically stated. In addition, this Special Project Bonus Program is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of the MIP and is not intended to supercede such terms, conditions, and limitations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no payment will be made under the terms of this Special Project Bonus Program unless the requirements of Part (III)(C) of the MIP
Special Project Bonus Program Page 4 are met, as certified by the Committee, and any such payment will be limited in accordance with the terms of Part (III)(C) of the MIP. Any dispute or disagreement concerning this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and will be subject to binding arbitration in Orlando, Florida in accordance with the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association. By signing below, the participant acknowledges that the participant is not entitled to any other amounts or interests under this or any other Special Project Bonus Program other than as stated herein. The participant further agrees and understands that this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the matters dealt with herein, and supersedes all previous proposals, negotiations, representations, commitments, writings, agreements, documents and all other communications between the parties, both oral and written, with respect to such matters. /s/ Blaine Sweatt /s/ Dan Lyons 6/16/06 - ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- Participant Signature Date Dan Lyons Date Senior Vice President, Human Resources /s/ Jack Snow 6/16/06 - ------------------------------------ Jack Snow Date Senior Vice President, Compensation & Benefits

Exhibit 10(k) Darden Restaurants, Inc. Performance Criteria for Annual Cash Bonus Under the Management and Professional Incentive Plan for Fiscal 2007 Darden Restaurants, Inc. ("we," "us", "our" or the "Company") uses cash and stock-based compensation for three purposes: o To align executives' interests with those of shareholders; o To focus executives on short- and long-term business strategies; and o To reward individual, business unit and corporate performance. Ultimately, the objective of our compensation program is to maximize our success, and a significant portion of our pay for executives is variable and linked to performance. Annual incentive awards are granted by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors ("Committee") to executive officers under our Management and Professional Incentive Plan ("MIP"), and are paid in cash. A copy of the MIP was filed as Exhibit 10(h) to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 25, 2003. Pursuant to the MIP, performance goals and maximum payouts are established annually at the beginning of each fiscal year. The Committee meets, typically in June, to evaluate the performance of the Company and each business unit for the fiscal year just ended, and to determine ratings based on actual results compared to the goals approved by the Committee at the inception of the fiscal year. The bonus paid to each executive officer under the MIP is based on four factors: (i) earned salary, (ii) the normal incentive percentage, (iii) the individual rating, and (iv) the company rating. The earned salary is each executive officer's actual base salary earned for the portion of the fiscal year during which they were a participant in the MIP. The normal incentive percentage for executive officers ranges from 35% to 70%. The individual rating ranges from 0 to 1.5, and is determined by actual individual performance versus pre-determined individual performance goals established at the beginning of the fiscal year. An additional 0.2 multiplier may be added to the individual rating as a strategic imperative award that is available to all participating employees, including executive officers, for extraordinary contributions in areas of strategic focus. The company rating ranges from 0 to 2.0. For executive officers other than business unit presidents, the company rating is determined by actual performance versus pre-determined performance goals of: (i) earnings per share (weighted 70%) and (ii) sales (30%). This company rating for executive officers other than business unit presidents is referred to as the "DRI Rating."
For business unit presidents, the company rating is determined by actual performance versus pre-determined performance goals of: (i) the business unit rating (80%); and (ii) the DRI Rating (20%). The business unit rating for the presidents of Red Lobster and Olive Garden is based on the following financial measures for the business unit: (i) operating profit (70%) and (ii) sales (30%). The business unit rating for the president of Smokey Bones is based on the following measures for the business unit: (i) operating profit (40%); (ii) sales (30%); and (iii) quantitative measures of the quality of operations, including transformation of the concept to better position it for future success (30%). The business unit rating for the president of Bahama Breeze is based on the following measures for the business unit: (i) operating profit (40%); (ii) sales (30%); and (iii) quantitative measures of the quality of operations (30%). The maximum bonus payable under the MIP pursuant to the performance goals described above is 3.4 times the normal incentive percentage. For the Chief Executive Officer with a normal incentive percentage of 70%, the bonus may range from 0 to 238% of base salary, depending on the achievement of the above performance goals. 2

Exhibit 99 DARDEN RESTAURANTS Red Lobster(R) Olive Garden(R) Bahama Breeze(R) Smokey Bones(R) www.darden.com NEWS/INFORMATION Corporate Relations P.O. Box 593330 Orlando, FL 32859 Contacts: (Analysts) Matthew Stroud (407) 245-6458 (Media) Jim DeSimone(407) 245-4567 FOR RELEASE June 20, 2006 4:30 PM ET DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS 21% ANNUAL AND 15% FOURTH QUARTER DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH ORLANDO, FL, June 20 - Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE:DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal year and fiscal fourth quarter ended May 28, 2006. For the fiscal year, diluted net earnings per share were $2.16, a 21% increase over the prior year, on net earnings of $338.2 million. In the fourth quarter, diluted net earnings per share were 60 cents, a 15% increase over the prior year, on net earnings of $92.3 million. Darden Restaurants, the world's largest casual dining company, reported that full year sales increased 8.4% to $5.72 billion. In the fourth quarter, sales increased 8.5% to $1.51 billion, driven primarily by strong same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster and Olive Garden and new restaurant growth at Olive Garden and Smokey Bones. "We had an outstanding quarter, capping a great year," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "For the second consecutive year, our talented and committed people delivered net earnings per share growth of over 20%. And that was particularly noteworthy and satisfying in a year in which the macro-economic environment presented us with some challenges. These results demonstrate the power of combining an inclusive culture, where the focus is on nourishing and delighting everyone we serve, with effective brand management and continuously improving in-restaurant excellence. We're excited about the future and look forward to strong financial performance in fiscal 2007. Our entire organization is convinced that Darden's proven approach to the casual dining business will enable us to thrive - in good times and bad - and achieve our goal of being the best in our industry, now and for generations." Highlights for the quarter and year ended May 28, 2006 include the following: o Net earnings for the fiscal year were $338.2 million, or $2.16 per diluted share, on sales of $5.7 billion. Last year, net earnings were $290.6 million, or $1.78 per diluted share, for the fiscal year. o Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $92.3 million, or 60 cents per diluted share, on sales of $1.5 billion. Last year, net earnings were $84.0 million, or 52 cents per diluted share, for the fourth quarter, on sales of $1.4 billion. -MORE-
-2- o Red Lobster's U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 9.4% in the fourth quarter, its 7th consecutive quarter of same-restaurant sales growth. Red Lobster's U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 4.9% for the fiscal year. o Olive Garden's U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 2.5% in the fourth quarter, its 47th consecutive quarter of same-restaurant sales growth. Olive Garden's U.S. same-restaurant sales increase for the fiscal year was 5.5%. o Darden purchased 2.4 million shares of its common stock in the fourth quarter, bringing the total number of shares repurchased during the year to 11.9 million. Operating Highlights RED LOBSTER'S fourth quarter sales of $703.3 million were 10.7% above prior year, driven primarily by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 9.4%. For the quarter, the company's sales gains and lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense as a percent of sales more than offset increased restaurant expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of sales. This resulted in a strong double-digit increase in operating profit for the quarter. Red Lobster's total sales for the fiscal year were $2.58 billion, a 5.9% increase from last year; its average annual sales per restaurant were $3.8 million; and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year were up 4.9%. Red Lobster had record annual sales, operating profit and return on sales. OLIVE GARDEN'S fourth quarter sales of $665.0 million were 6.1% above prior year, driven primarily by revenue from 19 net new restaurants opened during fiscal 2006 and a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 2.5%. For the quarter, the company's sales gains and lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of sales, more than offset increased restaurant expenses and depreciation and amortization expense as a percent of sales. This resulted in a strong increase in operating profit for the quarter. Olive Garden had record total sales for the fiscal year of $2.62 billion, a 9.0% increase from last year; its average annual sales per restaurant were $4.6 million; and its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase for the year was 5.5%. Olive Garden delivered record sales, operating profit and return on sales for the fiscal year. BAHAMA BREEZE'S fourth quarter sales of $46.4 million were 3.6% above prior year, driven by a same-restaurant sales increase of 3.6%. Total sales for the fiscal year for Bahama Breeze were $166.3 million and average annual sales per restaurant were $5.2 million. Bahama Breeze's same-restaurant sales increased 1.7% for the fiscal year. SMOKEY BONES opened three restaurants during the fourth quarter and had 126 restaurants in operation at the end of the fiscal year. Smokey Bones' fourth quarter sales of $89.8 million were 8.7% above prior year. Same-restaurant sales for the fourth quarter decreased 7.7%. Smokey Bones' total sales for the fiscal year were $337.4 million; its average annual sales per restaurant were $2.9 million; and same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year were down 3.7%. During fiscal year 2007, the company plans to focus on repositioning its brand to increase breadth of appeal while limiting its new restaurant openings to five restaurants. -MORE-
-3- "Darden's operating performance this quarter was very strong and provided a great finish to a tremendous year," said Drew Madsen, President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden. "Olive Garden continues to deliver industry-leading performance driven by an exceptionally strong brand and business model. Strong financial performance and same-restaurant sales growth at Red Lobster reflects significant improvement in every aspect of their business. Bahama Breeze continues to make meaningful progress in their mission to become more broadly appealing, as evidenced by their same-restaurant sales growth. And, we recognize we've got work to do at Smokey Bones. Plans are in place to address its key issues and new restaurant growth will be reduced until performance improves. While there are many challenges and opportunities in a dynamic business like casual dining, with our great people and proven brands, we're convinced that Darden overall is well-positioned to deliver another strong year of performance in fiscal 2007." Other Actions Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 2.4 million shares in the fourth quarter. In fiscal 2006, the Company spent $434 million purchasing 11.9 million shares. Since commencing its repurchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased 132.5 million shares for $2.2 billion under authorizations totaling 137.4 million shares. The Board of Directors approved an additional share repurchase authorization totaling 25.0 million shares. Combined with unused capacity from prior authorizations, Darden's available share repurchase authorization now totals 29.9 million shares, which is approximately 20% of the 145.9 million shares the Company had outstanding at the end of fiscal 2006. The Company will hold its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on September 15, 2006 at The Peabody Orlando hotel in Orlando, FL. The record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting is July 24, 2006. May 2006 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the four-week May fiscal month ended May 28, 2006. This period is the last month of Darden's fiscal 2006 fourth quarter. Same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster increased 3% to 4% for fiscal May, which reflected a 3% to 4% increase in check average and a 0% to 1% increase in guest counts. The check average increase was a result of an approximate 2% increase in pricing and a 1% to 2% increase from menu mix changes. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster were up 5% to 6% during fiscal May. Same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden increased approximately 3% for fiscal May, which reflected an approximate 2% increase in check average and an approximate 1% increase in guest counts. The check average increase was mostly due to pricing. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden were up 11% to 12% during fiscal May. -MORE-
-4- Fiscal 2007 Outlook Darden expects combined U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2007 of between 2% and 4% for Red Lobster and Olive Garden. Darden also expects to open approximately 40 net new restaurants. As a result, the Company expects total sales growth of between 5% and 7% in fiscal 2007. "With the solid same-restaurant sales growth we anticipate at Red Lobster and Olive Garden, continued operational progress at Bahama Breeze and stronger financial results at Smokey Bones as we limit new restaurant expansion and work to improve performance there, we expect 13% to 14% diluted net earnings per share growth in fiscal 2007, excluding compensation expense for stock options. This target is well within our long-term goal of annual diluted net earnings per share growth in the 10% to 15% range," said Otis. "When compensation expense for stock options is included following the adoption of SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we anticipate that diluted net earnings per share growth will be 9% to 10%, in fiscal 2007." Darden Restaurants, Inc., headquartered in Orlando, FL, owns and operates over 1,400 Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze, Smokey Bones and Seasons 52 restaurants with annual sales of $5.7 billion. Forward-looking statements in this news release are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain important factors could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements including the impact of intense competition, changing economic or business conditions, the price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities, labor and insurance costs, increased advertising and marketing costs, higher-than-anticipated costs to open or close restaurants, litigation, unfavorable publicity, a lack of suitable locations, government regulations, a failure to achieve growth objectives, weather and other factors discussed from time to time in reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. NUMBER OF RESTAURANTS 05/28/06 05/29/05 -------- -------- 651 Red Lobster USA 648 31 Red Lobster Canada 31 ------ ------------------ ------ 682 Total Red Lobster 679 576 Olive Garden USA 557 6 Olive Garden Canada 6 ------ ------------------- ------ 582 Total Olive Garden 563 32 Bahama Breeze 32 126 Smokey Bones 104 5 Seasons 52 3 ------ ------ 1,427 Total Restaurants 1,381 -MORE-
-5- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) -MORE-
-6- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands) (Unaudited) 5/28/2006 5/29/2005 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 42,334 $ 42,801 Receivables 37,111 36,510 Inventories 198,723 235,444 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 29,889 28,927 Deferred income taxes 69,550 63,584 Total current assets $ 377,607 $ 407,266 Land, buildings and equipment, net 2,446,035 2,351,454 Other assets 186,528 179,051 Total assets $ 3,010,170 $ 2,937,771 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 213,239 $ 191,197 Short-term debt 44,000 -- Accrued payroll 123,176 114,602 Accrued income taxes 64,792 52,404 Other accrued taxes 46,853 43,825 Unearned revenues 100,761 88,472 Current portion of long-term debt 149,948 299,929 Other current liabilities 283,309 254,178 Total current liabilities $ 1,026,078 $ 1,044,607 Long-term debt, less current portion 494,653 350,318 Deferred income taxes 90,573 114,846 Deferred rent 138,530 130,872 Other liabilities 30,573 24,109 Total liabilities $ 1,780,407 $ 1,664,752 Stockholders' equity: Common stock and surplus $ 1,806,367 $ 1,703,336 Retained earnings 1,684,742 1,405,754 Treasury stock (2,211,222) (1,784,835) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (5,570) (8,876) Unearned compensation (44,186) (41,685) Officer notes receivable (368) (675) Total stockholders' equity $ 1,229,763 $ 1,273,019 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 3,010,170 $ 2,937,771 -MORE-
-7- DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC. Fourth Quarter FY 2006 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (In millions, except per share data) (Unaudited) -END-


