FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20071218170812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated December 18, 2007, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Second Quarter Sales and Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Announces Quarterly Dividend of 18 Cents Per Share; Updates Fiscal 2008 Financial Outlook", a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 18, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
 
 
FOR RELEASE
December 18, 2007
4:30 PM ET
ORLANDO, FL, Dec. 18  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported sales and diluted net earnings per share for the second quarter ended November 25, 2007. The results include the effect of the acquisition of RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille), which closed on October 1, 2007, as well as other items discussed below. Second quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.52 billion, which includes two months of sales (October and November) from the acquisition, compared to $1.30 billion reported in the prior year. This represents a 17% increase over the prior year, which reflects the addition of LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille, as well as meaningful new and same-restaurant growth at Olive Garden.
In the second quarter, diluted net earnings per share were 30 cents. The Company estimates that, in aggregate, the acquisition and other items adversely affected diluted net earnings per share by approximately 12 cents in the second quarter. More specifically, in the second quarter: (1) integration and purchase accounting adjustments related to the RARE acquisition reduced diluted net earnings per share by approximately nine cents, (2) incremental financing costs reduced diluted net earnings per share by approximately four cents, (3) operating contribution and associated tax benefits from the acquisition increased diluted net earnings per share by approximately three cents and (4) litigation charges relating to the settlement of certain legal issues in California reduced diluted net earnings per share by approximately two cents. The Company reported diluted net earnings per share of 41 cents in the prior year's second quarter. In this year's second quarter, diluted net losses per share from discontinued operations were zero compared to diluted net losses per share from discontinued operations of four cents in the prior year.
"While we are pleased that our sales growth this quarter once again outpaced our industry, we did see some sales softness because of what continued to be a difficult consumer environment," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "As a result of this softness and a tougher than anticipated cost environment, we were unable to meet our expectations for earnings growth. Still, we believe our competitively strong top-line is evidence of the underlying strength of our brands and the excellence of the teams working to make those brands compelling for guests. We are also making great progress integrating our two newest brands, LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille, and continue to expect to achieve meaningful financial and operational synergies as a result of the acquisition. These synergies strengthen our ability to meet near-term cost challenges and, longer-term, they will enable us to become an even stronger, higher value creating organization as we work to be the best in our industry now and for generations."
"The acquisition of RARE Hospitality and its strong brands has already begun to benefit Darden," said Brad Richmond, Chief Financial Officer of Darden. "LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille's concentration in a popular dining category like steak that has not been a meaningful part of Darden's market basket helps diversify our overall sales and cost structure. While the transaction and integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of RARE reduced operating profit from continuing operations, LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille provided a meaningful contribution to operating profit for the quarter. We're confident that the operating profit contribution that LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille make to Darden will continue to grow. And, in fiscal 2009 and beyond, that contribution will help drive solid EPS growth as we continue to retire debt issued to fund the acquisition and to return an increasing amount of our strong cash flows to shareholders through share repurchases, lowering our share base."
Highlights for the quarter include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
second quarter sales of $716.5 million were 8.2% above prior year, driven primarily by revenue from 33 net new restaurants and a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 3.2%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, the company's increased food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses and restaurant expenses as a percent of sales were partially offset by lower selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of sales. As a result, operating profit decreased slightly for the quarter but was flat when excluding the impact of litigation charges.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
second quarter sales of $600.3 million were 0.6% above prior year including a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 0.1%. For the quarter, the company's increased food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of sales led to decreased operating profit.
RED LOBSTER'S
second quarter sales (October and November only) of $126.0 million were 6.4% above the same period in the prior year, driven by revenue from 30 net new restaurants. For the quarter (October and November only), the company had flat food and beverage expenses as a percent of sales while restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses increased as a percent of sales compared to their same period in the prior year. Restaurant expenses, selling, general, and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses were impacted by the adverse effect of integration related costs and purchase accounting adjustments.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
second quarter sales (October and November only) of $37.3 million were 11.3% above the same period in the prior year, driven by the addition of four net new restaurants and a same-restaurant sales increase of 0.7% (October and November only). For the full quarter (September, October and November), same-restaurant sales increased 1.2%.
THE CAPITAL GRILLE'S
'second quarter sales of $30.3 million were 0.1% above prior year's sales from continuing operations, driven by a same-restaurant sales increase of 0.1%.
BAHAMA BREEZE
S
"We recognize that this is a difficult consumer environment, which makes the sales performance at our businesses all the more noteworthy," said Drew Madsen, President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden. "Olive Garden's sales continue to outperform the casual dining industry trends. Red Lobster's same-restaurant results were also stronger than the Knapp-Track industry benchmark, and they continue to strengthen their business in preparation for additional unit growth. And, we are excited to count LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille as part of the Darden team. LongHorn's opportunity to become a national brand is very compelling and will substantially increase Darden's total unit and sales growth. Also, as we discussed when we announced the acquisition, The Capital Grille serves as the foundation for our newly formed specialty restaurant group, which leverages resources and pools expertise to enhance our ability to successfully develop and grow The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52."
Other Actions
Darden's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 18 cents per share on the Company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on February 1, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2008.
 
 
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing almost 855,000 shares in the second quarter. Since commencing its repurchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased almost 143 million shares for $2.7 billion under authorizations totaling 162.4 million shares. The Company reiterated that it plans to buyback between $125 million and $175 million of its common stock in fiscal 2008.
Fiscal September, October and November 2008 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of September, October and November as follows:
 
Fiscal 2008 Financial Outlook
Darden confirmed that it continues to expect combined U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2008 of between 2% and 4% for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn, and that it expects to open approximately 65 net new restaurants this fiscal year, including new restaurants at LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille for October 2007 through May 2008. As a result, the Company expects total sales growth of between 19% and 20% in fiscal 2008, including sales from LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille for October 2007 through May 2008, compared to reported sales of $5.57 billion in fiscal 2007. Given the dynamics of the current cost environment, which are due in part to the impact a weaker U.S. dollar is having on commodities and the cost of products Darden imports from many different countries, the Company now anticipates that diluted net earnings per share growth will be 2% to 4% in fiscal 2008, which includes the transaction and integration related costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to the RARE Hospitality acquisition. These costs and adjustments will adversely impact diluted net earnings per share by approximately five percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the transaction and integration related costs and purchase accounting adjustments, diluted net earnings per share growth would be 7% to 9% in fiscal 2008.
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest casual dining company with almost $6.7 billion in annual sales and approximately 170,000 employees. The Company owns and operates more than 1,700 restaurants including Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52. For more information, please visit
www.Darden.com
Forward-looking statements in this news release are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements could address future economic performance, restaurant openings, various financial parameters, or similar matters. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10- K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include the impact of intense competition, changing economic or business conditions, the price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities, supply interruptions, labor and insurance costs, increased advertising and marketing costs, higher-than-anticipated costs to open or close restaurants, litigation, unfavorable publicity, a lack of suitable locations, government regulations, a failure to achieve growth objectives through the opening of new restaurants or the development or acquisition of new dining concepts, weather conditions, risks associated with Darden's plans to expand Darden's newer concepts Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, the closure and disposition of certain Smokey Bones restaurants and the anticipated sale of the remaining Smokey Bones restaurants, our ability to combine and integrate the business of RARE Hospitality International, Inc., and develop new LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants, risks associated with incurring substantial additional debt and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Reporting
In addition to GAAP reporting, Darden has adjusted its consolidated results from continuing operations for the 13 weeks ended November 26, 2006 as if RARE Hospitality was a part of Darden for October and November 2006. Darden believes this adjusted information is useful for comparison to our 13 weeks ended November 25, 2007, which included RARE Hospitality's results from continuing operations for only October and November 2007, and has therefore chosen to provide this information to investors. A reconciliation between Darden's "as reported" and "as adjusted" results from continuing operations for the 13 weeks ended November 26, 2006 is included in the table below.
 
 
 


