FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20070320172802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
            
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report: March 15, 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 1-13666
 
 
 
5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(407) 245-4000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The Company issued a news release dated March 20, 2007, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Third Quarter Results; Declares Dividend of 23 Cents Per Share," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Blaine Sweatt, III, 59, Executive Vice President and President, New Business and a director of the Company, informed the Board of Directors on March 15, 2007 that he will retire as Executive Vice President and President, New Business and director effective May 27, 2007. After May 27, 2007, he will remain employed by the Company until June 30, 2007.
 
The Company issued a news release dated March 20, 2007 with further information about this change, entitled "Darden Restaurants' Acclaimed Concept Developer to Retire  Company Appoints New Seasons 52 Leader," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Company also approved awards to Mr. Sweatt in connection with a Special Project Bonus Program  Seasons 52 agreement with Mr. Sweatt dated June 16, 2006 ("Agreement"), that was previously disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20, 2006 ("2006 Form 8-K"). The development of new restaurant concepts is an important component of the Company's long-term growth strategy, and the compensation structure for key employees in this area is designed to provide long-term incentives for achieving successful results. The Agreement provided that the Company's Board of Directors would review the Seasons 52 restaurant concept, and if determined to be financially viable, the Compensation Committee of the Board would then approve cash payments for Mr. Sweatt in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,831,050, and restricted stock (or cash, stock equivalents or other form of current compensation of comparable value for the restricted stock awards) valued at 50% of the amount of the cash payments. A copy of the Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10(j) to the 2006 Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in this report, and the foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference thereto.
 
In accordance with the terms of the Agreement, on March 15, 2007 the Company's Board of Directors determined that Seasons 52 was a financially viable restaurant concept, and on March 16, 2007 the Company's Compensation Committee approved the payment to Mr. Sweatt of $2,831,050 cash and the award to Mr. Sweatt of Special Project Performance Stock Units ("PSUs") valued at approximately $1,415,525. The cash award will be paid on or before August
 
2
 
31, 2007. The PSUs will be granted effective with the regular meeting of the Company's Compensation Committee and Board of Directors in June 2007 at which the Company's other annual equity grants are approved, with the number of PSUs to be determined, according to the Company's established protocol, by dividing the PSU award value by the discounted average stock price of the Company's common stock for the fiscal month immediately preceding the date of grant. The PSUs will be in the form previously filed as Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 28, 2006.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: March 20, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Red Lobster Olive Garden Bahama Breeze Smokey Bones
www.darden.com
P.O. Box 593330
FOR RELEASE
March 20, 2007
4:30 PM ET
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS,
DECLARES DIVIDEND OF 23 CENTS PER SHARE
 
ORLANDO, FL, Mar. 20  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE:DRI) today reported record diluted net earnings per share for the third quarter ended February 25, 2007. For the third quarter, diluted net earnings per share were 72 cents, a 7% increase over the prior year, on net earnings of $106.4 million. In the first quarter of this fiscal year, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123R) on a modified prospective basis, which reduced diluted net earnings per share by $0.02 in the third quarter. The Company reported that third quarter sales increased 4.7% to $1.54 billion, driven primarily by same-restaurant sales growth at Red Lobster and Olive Garden and new restaurant growth at Olive Garden.
 
"We delivered solid results this quarter that continued to be at leadership levels within our industry," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "The key to our success remains talented people guided by a proven approach to the business that involves combining effective brand management and relentless attention to restaurant operations excellence. To build on our solid foundation, we are working to ensure Olive Garden sustains same-restaurant momentum as it accelerates new restaurant growth, while taking steps to increase new restaurant growth at Red Lobster and Bahama Breeze and further testing a new direction for Smokey Bones. As a result, we remain confident we are taking the strategic actions necessary to achieve our goal of being the best in casual dining, now and for generations."
 
Highlights for the quarter ended February 25, 2007 include the following:
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
 
RED LOBSTER'S
third quarter sales of $684.2 million were 5.0% above prior year, driven primarily by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 4.6%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, increased food and beverage expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses were offset by increased sales leverage and lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, and depreciation and amortization expense. Operating profit increased for the quarter, although it was modestly lower on a percentage of sales basis.
 
OLIVE GARDEN'S
third quarter sales of $722.4 million were 4.9% above prior year, driven primarily by revenue from 28 net new restaurants opened and a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 1.0%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, the company's increased food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses were offset by increased sales leverage and lower restaurant expenses and depreciation and amortization expense. Operating profit increased for the quarter, although it was modestly lower on a percentage of sales basis.
 
BAHAMA BREEZE
'
S
third quarter sales of $38.0 million were 0.6% below prior year. Same-restaurant sales for the third quarter decreased 0.4%.
 
SMOKEY BONES'
third quarter sales of $87.2 million were 1.5% below prior year. Same-restaurant sales for the third quarter declined by 5.2%.
 
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-3-
 
"Despite the challenging environment, we successfully strengthened our business fundamentals and made meaningful progress on the strategic priorities that will drive future success," said Drew Madsen, President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden. "Red Lobster achieved strong same-restaurant sales growth and began implementation of their brand refreshment initiative. Olive Garden's ability to maintain same-restaurant excellence while accelerating new unit growth speaks to the strength of that brand and their team. Bahama Breeze has improved their guest experience and unit economics sufficiently to restart unit growth. And, Smokey Bones is making progress on its test of a new direction for the business."
 
Other Actions
 
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 4.3 million shares in the third quarter. Since commencing its repurchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased 140.8 million shares for $2.6 billion under authorizations totaling 162.4 million shares.
 
Darden announced today that the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of 23 cents per share on the Company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on May 1, 2007 to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 10, 2007. Based on this 23-cent semi-annual dividend declaration, the Company's indicated annual dividend is 46 cents per share.
 
Fiscal February 2007 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
 
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the four-week February fiscal month ended February 25, 2007. This period is the last month of Darden's fiscal 2007 third quarter.
 
Same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster increased 3% to 4% for fiscal February, which reflected a 4% to 5% increase in check average and a 1% to 2% decrease in guest counts. The check average increase was a result of a 2% to 3% increase in pricing and an approximate 2% increase from menu mix changes. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster decreased 7% to 8% for fiscal February.
 
Same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden increased 1% to 2% for fiscal February, which reflected a 2% to 3% increase in check average and a 1% to 2% decrease in guest counts. The check average increase was a result of a 2% to 3% increase in pricing and a 0% to 1% increase from menu mix changes. Last year, same-restaurant sales at Olive Garden increased approximately 3% for fiscal February.
 
February's results at both Olive Garden and Red Lobster were negatively affected by approximately 1.0 percentage point due to unfavorable weather this February compared to last year and positively affected by 1.0 percentage point due to holiday shifts and special events (Lent and Olympics).
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-4-
 
Fiscal 2007 Outlook
 
Darden now expects combined U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2007 of between 2% and 3% for Red Lobster and Olive Garden. Darden also expects to open approximately 35 to 40 net new restaurants. As a result, the Company now expects total sales growth of approximately 5% in fiscal 2007. Including the adoption of SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company anticipates that diluted net earnings per share growth will continue to be 10% to 12% in fiscal 2007.
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc., headquartered in Orlando, FL, owns and operates over 1,450 Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze, Smokey Bones and Seasons 52 restaurants with annual sales of $5.7 billion.
 
Forward-looking statements in this news release are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain important factors could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements including the impact of intense competition, changing economic or business conditions, the price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities, labor and insurance costs, increased advertising and marketing costs, higher-than-anticipated costs to open or close restaurants, litigation, unfavorable publicity, a lack of suitable locations, government regulations, a failure to achieve growth objectives, weather, risks associated with our plans to improve financial performance at Bahama Breeze and Smokey Bones and to reposition Smokey Bones, and other factors discussed from time to time in reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
NUMBER OF RESTAURANTS
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-6-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-MORE-
 
-7-
 
 
 
 
 
 
-END-
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Red Lobster Olive Garden Bahama Breeze Smokey Bones
www.darden.com
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS' ACCLAIMED CONCEPT DEVELOPER TO RETIRE
Company Appoints New Seasons 52 Leader
 
ORLANDO, Mar 20
 Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today announced that Blaine Sweatt, a longtime restaurant industry leader and community builder for the company that owns and operates Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze, Smokey Bones Barbeque and Grill and
Seasons 52 restaurant companies, will retire as an executive officer of the company and as a member of its Board of Directors at the end of the company's fiscal year in May. He will then remain as an advisor to the Darden executive team through June 30 to ensure a smooth transition.
"Throughout his career, Blaine has provided leadership to help build Darden's business and shape its strategy to be a multibrand restaurant growth company," said Darden CEO Clarence Otis Jr. "He is a visionary leader who has inspired others to believe in a dream and follow it with the passion and vigor needed to make it a reality."
Following military service and graduate school, Blaine joined General Mills Restaurants in 1976 and moved through a variety of menu-planning, purchasing and financial positions. In 1981 he was named Director of New Concept Development and then Vice President, General Manager of the New Business Division in 1986, and ultimately president of that Division in 1991. Over the past 25 years he led the teams that developed Olive Garden, The Order Inn (a home delivery concept in Minneapolis), China Coast, Bahama Breeze, Smokey Bones, and most recently, Seasons 52.
When Darden spun off from General Mills in 1995 as an independent public company, Sweatt was part of the launch team, serving as President of the New Business Division and as a founding member of Darden's Board of Directors.
Sweatt is well known throughout the restaurant industry and has been a frequent participant in industry forums and conferences. He is a member of the University of Central Florida Hall of Fame and has been a member of the Executive Committees of both the University's College of Business and its Rosen School of Hospitality Management.
As a founding member of the Darden Restaurants Foundation Board of Trustees, Sweatt helped guide charitable grants totaling $45 million.
 
Stephen Judge to become President of Seasons 52
As Sweatt prepares to retire, Stephen Judge will join Darden effective March 20, 2007 as President of Seasons 52, Darden's fresh grill and wine bar, reporting to Darden Chief Operating Officer Drew Madsen.
Most recently, Judge served as vice president Food and Beverage for MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas, one of the world's largest hotels. In this role, he had leadership accountability for all culinary, banqueting, beverage and restaurant operations, and has overseen a multi-year evolution in the hotel's food
 
and beverage offerings including 17 new restaurant and bar concepts. Under Stephen's leadership and direction, the MGM Grand has earned numerous AAA Diamond awards for the quality of its restaurant operations (including one five-diamond, seven four-diamond and four three-diamond restaurants). Most recently MGM received its first Mobil five-star distinction for the Joel Robuchon restaurant.
"Stephen has a reputation across the industry as a successful operator of high-end, innovative dining concepts in both luxury and high-growth hospitality venues," said Madsen. "Throughout his career he has introduced unique dining concepts to the hospitality industry with a focus on service excellence and culinary sophistication."
Before MGM, Stephen was an executive with Rosewood Hotels and Resorts, where he led the food and beverage operations for the collection of ultra luxury Rosewood properties worldwide, including North America, Latin America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. He also spent 11 years in senior management roles leading the food and beverage operations for Princess Cruises and Premier Cruise Lines.
Judge became a professional chef in 1986 and did his training and apprenticeship in the United Kingdom. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Hotel and Catering Management from Nottingham Trent University.
 
Seasons 52's Next Phase of Development
"As Seasons 52 moves to its next phase of development, which includes continuing to operate its seven existing restaurants with excellence and developing the real estate and talent pipelines for another three or so openings over the next two years, Stephen Judge is absolutely the right leader," said Madsen.
Sweatt will work closely with Judge over the coming months to ensure a successful transition of leadership for Seasons 52. He will also continue to work with Otis and the Darden Executive Team on Darden's growth strategies.
"Blaine's contributions reflect how much he lives Darden's values of excellence and teamwork," Otis said. "And, ultimately, this shows most clearly in the extent to which he has helped Darden become a casual dining leader. His dedication and innovation in new business development have been instrumental to our company's growth."
Darden is the world's largest casual dining company in market share and sales. The company owns and operates over 1,450 restaurants with annual sales in fiscal 2006 of $5.7 billion.
 
###
 
 


