FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20080624170559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated June 24, 2008, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports Fourth Quarter and Annual Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Announces Quarterly Dividend of 20 Cents Per Share; Discusses Fiscal 2009 Financial Outlook," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
RARE Hospitality International, Inc. ("RARE"), which the Company acquired on October 1, 2007, is the sponsor of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("RARE Plan"). The RARE Plan has not been approved by Darden's shareholders, but was approved by the shareholders of RARE on May 8, 2007. The RARE Plan is now administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, and provides for the issuance of Company common stock in connection with awards of non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units. The RARE Plan is designed to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, regarding the deductibility of executive compensation. The exercise price of stock options shall be determined by the Compensation Committee, but shall not be less than the fair market value of a share of Company common stock as of the grant date. No new awards may be granted under the RARE Plan after May 10, 2014, but the plan will remain in effect as long as any awards under the plan are outstanding. The RARE Plan allows the Compensation Committee to specify the terms and conditions of the awards.
The Company's Compensation Committee amended the RARE Plan on June 19, 2008 to provide a "fungible share pool" approach to account for authorized shares under the RARE Plan. If an award under the RARE Plan entitles the holder to receive or purchase shares of Company common stock, the shares covered by such award or to which the award relates shall be counted against the aggregate number of shares available for awards under the RARE Plan as follows:
 
 
 
Awards that do not entitle the holder to receive or purchase shares and awards that are settled in cash shall not be counted against the aggregate number of shares available for awards under the RARE Plan.
If any shares covered by an award under the RARE Plan or to which an award relates are not purchased or are forfeited or are reacquired by the Company (including shares of restricted stock, whether or not dividends have been paid on such shares), or if an award otherwise terminates or is cancelled without delivery of any shares, then the number of shares counted pursuant to the RARE Plan against the aggregate number of shares available under the RARE Plan with respect to such award, to the extent of any such forfeiture, reacquisition, termination or cancellation, will again be available for granting awards under the RARE Plan. The RARE Plan does not provide, however, for "net share counting," so that shares that are used to pay the exercise price of a stock option or withheld upon the exercise of a stock option to satisfy tax withholding obligations will not be added to the number of shares available for granting awards under the RARE Plan.
A copy of the RARE Plan as amended June 19, 2008 is filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and copies of the forms of non-qualified stock option and restricted stock award agreements under the RARE Plan are filed as Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c), respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein. The foregoing summaries of those documents are qualified in their entirely by reference to the full text of those documents.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 24, 2008
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10(A)
1.1. . The purpose of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to promote the success, and enhance the value, of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company"), by linking the personal interests of employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company or any Affiliate (as defined below) who, as of September 30, 2007, were employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors to RARE Hospitality International, Inc. ("RARE") or its subsidiaries or affiliates to those of Company shareholders and by providing such persons with an incentive for outstanding performance. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of stock options and restricted stock awards from time to time to selected employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company or any Affiliate.
General
2.1. . When a word or phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section 2.1 unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context. The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
(a) "Affiliate" means (i) any Subsidiary or Parent, or (ii) an entity that directly or through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company, as determined by the Committee.
(b) "Award" means any Option or Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant under the Plan.
(c) "Award Certificate" means a written document, in such form as the Committee prescribes from time to time, setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award.
(d) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) "Cause", with respect to a Participant who is (i) an officer or employee, shall have the meaning assigned such term in the employment agreement, if any, between
such Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however, that if there is no such employment agreement in which such term is defined, and unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Certificate, "Cause" means any of the following acts by the Participant, as determined by the Board: gross neglect of duty, prolonged absence from duty without the consent of the Company, acceptance of a position with another employer without consent of the Company, intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business or other interests of the Company, or willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company, or (ii) is a director, consultant or advisor means any of the following acts by the Participant, as determined by the Board, unless a contrary definition is contained in the applicable Award Certificate: (A) the Participant's egregious and willful misconduct, or (B) the Participant's final conviction of a felonious crime; provided, however, that the foregoing definition shall only apply to Awards granted prior to September 30, 2007.
(f) "Change of Control" shall have the meaning set forth in an Award Certificate, provided that, with respect to Awards granted prior to September 30, 2007, "Change of Control" means and includes each of the following:
(1) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition by a Person who is on the Effective Date the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this definition;
(2) Individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
 
(3) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, and (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(4) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(g) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
(h) "Committee" means the committee of the Board described in Article 4.
(i) "Company" means Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation, its successors and assigns.
(j) "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee, officer, director, consultant or advisor of the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable; provided, however, that for purposes of an Incentive Stock Option, "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, as applicable. Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of any leave of absence authorized in writing by the Company prior to its commencement.
(k) "Covered Employee" means a covered employee as defined in Code Section 162(m)(3).
 
(l) "Disability" shall mean any illness or other physical or mental condition of a Participant that renders the Participant incapable of performing his customary and usual duties for the Company, or any medically determinable illness or other physical or mental condition resulting from a bodily injury, disease or mental disorder which, in the judgment of the Committee, is permanent and continuous in nature. The Committee may require such medical or other evidence as it deems necessary to judge the nature and permanency of the Participant's condition. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability shall mean Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
(m) "Effective Date" means the date set forth in Section 3.1.
(n) "Eligible Participant" means an employee, officer, director, consultant or advisor of the Company or any Affiliate.
(o) "Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange on which the Stock may from time to time be listed or traded.
(p) "Fair Market Value", on any date, means with respect to any property (including, without limitation, any Shares or other securities), the fair market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of Shares on a given date for purposes of the Plan shall be the mean of the high and low sales prices of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system on such date or, if such Exchange is not open for trading on such date, on the most recent preceding date when such Exchange is open for trading.
(q) "Good Reason" for a Participant's termination of employment after a Change of Control shall have the meaning assigned such term in the employment agreement, if any, between such Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however that if there is no such employment agreement in which such term is defined, or unless otherwise specified in the Award Certificate, "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following acts by the employer without the consent of the Participant (in each case, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the employer promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant): (i) the assignment to the Participant of duties materially inconsistent with the Participant's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control, or (ii) a reduction by the employer in the Participant's base salary or benefits as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control, unless a similar reduction is made in salary and benefits of peer employees, or (iii) the Company's requiring the Participant to be based at any office or location more than 50 miles from the office or location at which the Participant was stationed immediately prior to the Change of Control; provided, however, that the foregoing definition shall only apply to Awards granted prior to September 30, 2007.
(r) "Grant Date" means the date an Award is made by the Committee.
 
(s) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
(t) "Non-Employee Director" means a director of the Company who is not a common law employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
(u) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" means an Option that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or which does not meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
(v) "Option" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 7 of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
(w) "Parent" means a company, limited liability company, partnership or other entity that owns or beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Parent shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(e) of the Code.
(x) "Participant" means an Eligible Participant who has been granted an Award under the Plan; provided that in the case of the death of a Participant, the term "Participant" refers to a beneficiary designated pursuant to Section 9.4 or the legal guardian or other legal representative acting in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the Participant under applicable state law and court supervision.
(y) "Plan" means the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
(z) "Qualified Performance-Based Award" means (i) a Restricted Stock Award that is intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption and is made subject to performance goals based on Qualified Performance Criteria as set forth in Section 9.10, or (ii) an Option having an exercise price equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock as of the Grant Date.
(aa) "Qualified Performance Criteria" means one or more of the performance criteria listed in Section 9.10 upon which performance goals for certain Qualified Performance-Based Awards may be established by the Committee
(bb) "Restricted Stock Award" means Stock granted to a Participant under Article 8 that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
(cc) "Restricted Stock Unit Award" means the right to receive shares of Stock or cash based upon the Fair Market Value of a specified number of shares of Stock in the future, granted to a Participant under Article 8.
 
(dd) "Section 162(m) Exemption" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
(ee) "Shares" means shares of the Company's Stock. If there has been an adjustment or substitution pursuant to Section 10.1, the term "Shares" shall also include any shares of stock or other securities that are substituted for Shares or into which Shares are adjusted pursuant to Section 10.1.
(ff) "Stock" means the no par value common stock of the Company and such other securities of the Company as may be substituted for Stock pursuant to Article 10.
(gg) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Subsidiary shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code.
(hh) "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
(ii) "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
3.1. . The Plan originally became effective as of May 13, 2002, the date it was first approved by a majority of the shareholders of RARE. An amended and restated version of the Plan was approved by the shareholders of RARE effective as of April 10, 2003, and a second amended and restated version of the Plan was approved by the shareholders effective as of May 10, 2004 (the "Effective Date"). The shareholders of RARE approved further amendments to the Plan at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders on May 8, 2007.
Effective Date
3.2. . No Awards may be granted under the Plan after the ten-year anniversary of the Effective Date, but the Plan shall remain in effect as long as any Awards under it are outstanding.
Termination of Plan
4.1. . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Committee shall be comprised of not less than such number of Directors as shall be required to permit Awards granted under the Plan to qualify under Rule 16b-3, and each member of the Committee shall be a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. To the extent the Board has reserved any authority and responsibility or during any time that the Board is acting as
Committee
 
administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board. To the extent any action of the Board under the Plan conflicts with actions taken by the Committee, the actions of the Board shall control.
4.2. . For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Certificate and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan.
Actions and Interpretations by the Committee
4.3. . Except as provided below, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
Authority of Committee
(a) Grant Awards;
(b) Designate Participants;
(c) Determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant;
(d) Determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of Shares to which an Award will relate;
(e) Determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan, including but not limited to, the exercise price or grant price, any restrictions or limitations on the Award, any schedule for lapse of restrictions on the exercisability of an Award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
(f) Accelerate the vesting, exercisability or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, in accordance with Article 9, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
(g) Determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Option may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered;
(h) Prescribe the form of each Award Certificate, which need not be identical for each Participant;
(i) Decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
 
(j) Establish, adopt or revise any rules, regulations, guidelines or procedures as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
(k) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
(l) Amend the Plan or any Award Certificate as provided herein; and
(m) Adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or any Affiliate may operate, in order to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards granted to participants located in such other jurisdictions and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to Non-Employee Directors hereunder shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of one or more separate "formula" subplans for the compensation of Non-Employee Directors, and the Committee may not make discretionary grants hereunder to Non-Employee Directors.
To the extent permitted under Florida law, the Board or the Committee may expressly delegate to a special committee consisting of one or more directors who are also officers of the Company some or all of the Committee's authority under subsections (a) through (i) above, except that no delegation of its duties and responsibilities may be made to officers of the Company with respect to Awards to Eligible Participants who are, or who are anticipated to be become, either (i) Covered Employees or (ii) persons subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16 of the 1934 Act. The acts of such delegates shall be treated hereunder as acts of the Committee and such delegates shall report to the Committee regarding the delegated duties and responsibilities.
4.4. . Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Each Award Certificate shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee.
Award Certificates
5.1. . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10.1, the aggregate number of Shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be 3,899,227, of which 399,227 are available only for issuance pursuant to the exercise of Options and may not be granted as Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Number of Shares
5.2. .
Share Counting
(a) To the extent that an Award is canceled, terminates, expires, is forfeited or lapses for any reason, any unissued Shares subject to the Award will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
 
(b) For purposes of this Article 5, if an Award entitles the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares, the Shares covered by such Award or to which such Award relates shall be counted, in accordance with this Section 5.2(b), on the date of grant of such Award against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. With respect to Options, the number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan shall be reduced by one Share for each Share covered by such Award or to which such Award relates. With respect to any Awards that are granted on or after June 19, 2008, other than Options, the number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan shall be reduced by two Shares for each Share covered by such Award or to which such Award relates. Awards that do not entitle the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares and Awards that are settled in cash shall not be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan.
(c) If the exercise price of an Option is satisfied by either delivering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or attestation) or through a "net exercise" feature, the full number of Shares subject to the Option shall be considered as issued for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
(d) If Shares are withheld upon exercise of an Option to satisfy a Participant's tax withholding requirements, the full number of Shares subject to the Option shall be considered as issued for purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
5.3. . Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
Stock Distributed
5.4. . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10.1), the maximum number of Shares with respect to one or more Options that may be granted during any one calendar year under the Plan to any one Participant shall not exceed 221,793; provided, however, that in connection with his initial employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Participant may be granted Options with respect to up to an additional 88,717 Shares, which shall not count against the foregoing annual limit. The maximum fair market value (measured as of the Grant Date) of any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Awards that may be received by any one Participant (less any consideration paid by the Participant for such Award) during any one calendar year under the plan shall be $1,000,000.
Limitation on Awards
6.1. . Options may be granted only to Eligible Participants; except that Incentive Stock Options may not be granted to Eligible Participants who are not employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code.
General
 
7.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
General
(a) . The exercise price per share of Stock under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
(b) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, subject to Section 7.1(d). The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised or vested. Subject to Section 9.8, the Committee may waive any exercise or vesting provisions at any time in whole or in part based upon factors as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion so that the Option becomes exercisable or vested at an earlier date. The Committee may permit an arrangement whereby receipt of Stock upon exercise of an Option is delayed until a specified future date.
Time and Conditions of Exercise
(c) . The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property (including "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which Shares shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants; provided, however, that if Shares are used to pay the exercise price of an Option, such Shares must have been held by the Participant as fully vested shares for such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid variable accounting for the Option.
Payment
(d) . In no event may any Option be exercisable for more than ten years from the Grant Date.
Exercise Term
7.2. . The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the following additional rules:
Incentive Stock Options
(a) . An Incentive Stock Option shall lapse under the earliest of the following circumstances; provided, however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in subsections (3), (4), (5) and (6) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date, but if an Option is exercised after the dates specified in subsections (3) and (4) below, or more than three months after termination of employment for any other reason, it will automatically become a Non-Qualified Stock Option:
Lapse of Option
(1) The expiration date set forth in the Award Certificate.
(2) The tenth anniversary of the Grant Date.
 
(3) Three months after termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant for any reason other than the Participant's Disability, death or termination for Cause.
(4) One year after the termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant by reason of the Participant's Disability.
(5) One year after the Participant's death occurring during his Continuous Status as a Participant or during the three-month period described in subsection (3) above or the one-year period described in subsection (4) above and before the Option otherwise lapses.
(6) The date of the termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant if such termination is for Cause.
Unless the exercisability of the Incentive Stock Option is accelerated as provided in Article 9, if a Participant exercises an Option after termination of his Continuous Status as a Participant, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the Shares that were otherwise vested on the date of termination of his Continuous Status as a Participant.
(b) . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Grant Date) of all Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in any calendar year may not exceed $100,000.00.
Individual Dollar Limitation
(c) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any individual who, at the Grant Date, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary unless the exercise price per share of such Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share at the Grant Date and the Option expires no later than five years after the Grant Date.
Ten Percent Owners
(d) . No Incentive Stock Option may be granted pursuant to the Plan after the day immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.
Expiration of Authority to Grant Incentive Stock Options
(e) . During a Participant's lifetime, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's Disability, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Right to Exercise
(f) . Incentive Stock Options may not be granted to Eligible Participants who are not employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code.
Eligible Recipients
 
8.1. . The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee.
Grant of Restricted Stock
8.2. . Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Certificate, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Stock, and the Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Restricted Stock Units until such time as Shares of Stock are paid in settlement of the Restricted Stock Units.
Issuance and Restrictions
8.3. . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of Continuous Status as a Participant during the applicable restriction period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide in any Award Certificate that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture
8.4. . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be delivered to the Participant at the time of grant either by book-entry registration or by delivering to the Participant, or a custodian or escrow agent (including, without limitation, the Company or one or more of its employees) designated by the Committee, a stock certificate or certificates registered in the name of the Participant. If physical certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, such certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
Certificates for Restricted Stock
9.1. . Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or (subject to Section 11.2(c)) in substitution for, any other Award granted under the Plan. If an Award is granted in substitution for another Award, the Committee may require the surrender of such other Award in consideration of the grant of the new Award. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards.
Stand-Alone, Tandem, and Substitute Awards
 
9.2. . Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable law or Award Certificate, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate on the grant or exercise of an Award may be made in such form as the Committee determines at or after the Grant Date, including without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or any combination, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case determined in accordance with rules adopted by, and at the discretion of, the Committee.
Form of Payment for Options
9.3. . No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than to a beneficiary designated as provided in 9.4 or by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, except in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code if such Section applied to an Option under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards.
Limits on Transfer
9.4. . Notwithstanding Section 9.3, a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Certificate applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Certificate otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Committee.
Beneficiaries
9.5. . All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock.
Compliance with Laws
9.6. . Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan or any Participant's Award Certificate to the contrary, upon a Participant's death during his Continuous Status as a Participant, all of such Participant's outstanding Options shall become fully vested and exercisable and all restrictions on the Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock Awards shall lapse. Any Option shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Certificate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(b), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
Acceleration upon Death
 
9.7. . With respect to Awards outstanding as of September 30, 2007, except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate, all of a Participant's outstanding Options shall become fully vested and exercisable and all restrictions on the Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock Awards shall lapse if the Participant's employment is terminated without Cause or the Participant resigns for Good Reason within two years after the effective date of a Change of Control. Any Options shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificates.
Acceleration upon a Change of Control
9.8. . Regardless of whether an event has occurred as described in Section 9.6 or 9.7 above, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time determine that, upon the termination of employment or service of a Participant, all or a portion of such Participant's Options shall become fully or partially exercisable and/or that all or a part of the restrictions on all or a portion of the Participant's Restricted Stock Awards shall lapse, in each case, as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare. The Committee may discriminate among Participants and among Awards granted to a Participant in exercising its discretion pursuant to this Section 9.8.
Acceleration for other Reasons
9.9. . If an Award is accelerated under Section 9.6, 9.7 or 9.8, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that the Award will expire after a designated period of time after such acceleration to the extent not then exercised, (ii) that the Award will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (iii) that the Award will be assumed by another party to a transaction giving rise to the acceleration or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that the Award may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, or (v) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. To the extent that such acceleration causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(b), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
Effect of Acceleration
9.10. .
Qualified Performance-Based Awards
(a) The provisions of the Plan are intended to ensure that all Options granted hereunder to any Covered Employee qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
(b) When granting any Restricted Stock Award, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that the recipient is or may be a Covered Employee with respect to such Award, and the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. If an Award is so designated, the Committee shall establish performance goals for such Award within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code based on one or more of the following Qualified Performance Criteria, which may be expressed in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of an
 
Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate: (1) earnings per share, (2) EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), (3) EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes), (4) economic profit, (5) cash flow, (6) sales growth, (7) net profit before tax, (8) gross profit, (9) operating income or profit, (10) return on equity, (11) return on assets, (12) return on capital, (13) changes in working capital, or (14) shareholder return.
(c) Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than an Option) shall be earned, vested and payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee based upon one or more of the Qualified Performance Criteria, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant thereof or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such performance goals will be waived upon the death or Disability of the Participant, or upon termination of the Participant's employment without Cause or for Good Reason within 12 months after the effective date of a Change of Control.
(d) Any payment of a Qualified Performance-Based Award granted with performance goals pursuant to subsection (c) above shall be conditioned on the written certification of the Committee in each case that the performance goals and any other material conditions were satisfied. Except as specifically provided in subsection (c), no Qualified Performance-Based Award may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under the Plan with respect to a Qualified Performance-Based Award under the Plan, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable performance goal based on Qualified Performance Criteria or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
(e) Section 5.4 sets forth the maximum number of Shares or dollar value that may be granted in any one-year period to a Participant.
9.11. . Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. A Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be deemed to terminate (i) in a circumstance in which a Participant transfers from the Company to an Affiliate, transfers from an Affiliate to the Company, or transfers from one Affiliate to another Affiliate, or (ii) in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participant's employer from the Company or any Affiliate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to extend beyond three months from the date a Participant is deemed to be an employee of the Company, a Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code, the Options held by such Participant shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options.
Determination of Employment Status
 
10.1. . In the event of a corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee shall adjust Awards to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Awards. Action by the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. In addition, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, or (v) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock-split), a declaration of a dividend payable in shares of Stock, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor.
General
11.1. . The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without shareholder approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, either (i) materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants, (ii) materially increase the number of Shares issuable under the Plan, (iii) expand the types of awards provided under the Plan, (iv) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (v) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (vi) otherwise constitute a material amendment requiring shareholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to shareholder approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any amendment or modification on the approval of shareholders of the Company if such approval is necessary or deemed advisable to (i) permit Awards made hereunder to be exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act, (ii) to comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (iii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
Amendment, Modification and Termination
 
11.2. . At any time and from time to time, the Committee may, without additional consideration, amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however:
Awards Previously Granted
(a) Subject to the terms of the applicable Award Certificate, such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participant's consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised or cashed in at the spread value as of the date of such amendment or termination;
(b) The original term of an Award may not be extended without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company;
(c) Except as otherwise provided in Article 10, an Option may not be repriced, and the exercise price of an Award may not be reduced, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, an Award granted in substitution of another Award pursuant to Section 9.1), without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company; and
(d) No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant affected thereby.
12.1. . No Participant or any Eligible Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or Eligible Participants uniformly, and determinations made under the Plan may be made by the Committee selectively among Eligible Participants who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such Eligible Participants are similarly situated).
No Rights to Awards; Non-Uniform Determinations
12.2. . No Award gives a Participant any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award.
No Shareholder Rights
12.3. . The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. If Shares are surrendered to the Company to satisfy withholding obligations in excess of the minimum withholding obligation, such Shares must have been held by the Participant as fully vested shares for such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid variable accounting for the Award. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes.
Withholding
 
12.4. . Nothing in the Plan, any Award Certificate or any other document or statement made with respect to the Plan, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate any Participant's employment or status as an officer, director consultant or advisor at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer, director, consultant or advisor of the Company or any Affiliate, whether for the duration of a Participant's Award or otherwise.
No Right to Continued Service
12.5. . The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Certificate shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
Unfunded Status of Awards
12.6. . To the extent allowable under applicable law, each member of the Committee shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company from any loss, cost, liability, or expense (including, but not limited to, attorneys fees) that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by such member in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which such member may be a party or in which he may be involved by reason of any action or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such member in satisfaction of judgment in such action, suit, or proceeding against him provided he gives the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
12.7. . No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan.
Relationship to Other Benefits
12.8. . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company or its Affiliates.
Expenses
12.9. . The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
Titles and Headings
12.10. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
12.11. . No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down.
Fractional Shares
 
12.12. .
Government and Other Regulations
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Participant who acquires Shares pursuant to the Plan may, during any period of time that such Participant is an affiliate of the Company (within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act), sell such Shares, unless such offer and sale is made (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the 1933 Act, which is current and includes the Shares to be sold, or (ii) pursuant to an appropriate exemption from the registration requirement of the 1933 Act, such as that set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the 1933 Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by an Award upon any Exchange or under any foreign, federal, state or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the purchase or receipt of Shares thereunder, no Shares may be purchased, delivered or received pursuant to such Award unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Committee. Any Participant receiving or purchasing Shares pursuant to an Award shall make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may request to assure compliance with the foregoing or any other applicable legal requirements. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to the Committee's determination that all related requirements have been fulfilled. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the 1933 Act or applicable state or foreign law or to take any other action in order to cause the issuance and delivery of such certificates to comply with any such law, regulation or requirement.
12.13. . To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Florida.
Governing Law
12.14. . Each Award Certificate may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
Additional Provisions
12.15. . The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right to power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to grant or assume Awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
No Limitations on Rights of Company
 

EXHIBIT 10(B)
 
 
This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Notice of Stock Option Grant (the "Notice"). This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Notice (the "Grant Date").
The Company desires to provide you with an opportunity to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), as provided in this Agreement in order to carry out the purpose of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows:
 
The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, the right and option (the "Option") to purchase all or any part of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Notice, on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
The per share purchase price of the shares subject to the Option shall be the purchase price per share set forth in the attached Notice.
 
The term of the Option shall be for a period of ten years from the Grant Date, terminating at the close of business on the expiration date set forth in the attached Notice (the "Expiration Date") or such shorter period as is prescribed in Sections 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement. The Option shall become exercisable, or vest, on the date or dates set forth in the attached Notice, subject to the provisions of Sections 4, 5 and 6 of this Agreement. To the extent the Option is exercisable, you may exercise it in whole or in part, at any time, or from time to time, prior to the termination of the Option.
 
Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, from and after a Change of Control (as defined below) the following provisions shall apply:
(a) If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full for a period of six months following the date of the Change of Control. After this six-month period, the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above and in the attached Notice will govern with respect to any unexercised portion of the Option. However, if your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated within two years after a Change of Control, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (ii) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment.
(b) If you are serving on the Board of Directors of the Company but are not an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (a "Non-Employee Director"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and the Option shall expire on the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice.
(c) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events:
(i) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors;
(ii) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or
(iii) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
(a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is not a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, any portion of the Option that was not vested on the date of your termination of employment shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on the date of your termination of employment may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that:
(i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, then (A) any portion of the Option that has not vested as of the date of your termination of employment shall vest on a pro rata basis and become immediately exercisable, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of
 
employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested portion of the Option, (B) any portion of the Option that has not vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall be forfeited and (C) any portion of the Option that has vested (including any portion of the Option that has vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions) may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your termination of employment;
(ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice;
(iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement"), then (A) any portion of the Option that has not vested as of the date of your Early Retirement shall vest on a pro rata basis and become immediately exercisable, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested portion of the Option, (B) any portion of the Option that has not vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall be forfeited and (C) any portion of the Option that has vested (including any portion of the Option that has vested pursuant to the foregoing provisions) may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your Early Retirement; or
(iv) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
(b) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company and the Option is a Salary Replacement Option or a Bonus Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after the date of your termination of employment, except that:
(i) if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan), and your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your termination of employment;
 
(ii) if you retire under Normal Retirement, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice;
(iii) if you retire under Early Retirement, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your Early Retirement; or
(iv) if you die while employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
(c) If you are a Non-Employee Director and you cease to serve on the Board of Directors, any portion of the Option that was not vested on your last day of Board service shall be forfeited and any portion of the Option that was vested on your last day of Board service may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is three months after your last day of Board service, except that:
(i) if you have served on the Company's Board of Directors for at least five years, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full on your last day of Board service and may be exercised until the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice;
(ii) if you die while serving on the Company's Board of Directors, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised until the earlier of (x) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice and (y) the date that is five years after the date of your death. The Option may be exercised by your personal representative or the administrators of your estate or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution; or
(iii) if the Option is a Salary Replacement Option as indicated in the Notice, the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be exercised for the same period of time that would apply pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5(c) if the Option were not a Salary Replacement Option.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement, if, within two years following your termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company for any reason (including Normal Retirement or Early Retirement), you directly or indirectly (a) own, manage or operate, become or are employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to any enterprise, corporation or business that owns or operates casual dining restaurants anywhere in the United States or Canada (a "Competitor") or (b) you solicit or induce any person who is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company to own, manage or operate, become employed by, or provide consulting, advisory or other services to a Competitor, then
 
your Option will expire on the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice or (ii) on the date that is three months after the date you commenced employment with the Competitor or took the competitive action described above.
 
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, you may exercise your Option by following the procedures established by the Company from time to time. In addition, you may exercise your Option by written notice to the Company as provided in Section 10(i) of this Agreement that states (i) your election to exercise the Option, (ii) the Grant Date of the Option, (iii) the purchase price of the shares, (iv) the number of shares as to which the Option is being exercised, (v) the manner of payment and (vi) the manner of payment for any income tax withholding amount. The notice shall be signed by you or the Person or Persons exercising the Option. The notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the exercise price for all shares designated in the notice. To the extent that the Option is exercised after your death, the notice of exercise shall also be accompanied by appropriate proof of the right of such Person or Persons to exercise the Option.
(b) Payment of the exercise price shall be made to the Company through one or a combination of the following methods:
(i) cash, in United States currency (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the Company); or
(ii) delivery (either actual delivery or by attestation) of shares of Common Stock acquired by you more than six months prior to the date of exercise having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Option exercise price. You shall represent and warrant in writing that you are the owner of the shares so delivered, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security interests and restrictions, and you shall duly endorse in blank all certificates delivered to the Company.
 
(a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax adviser regarding the income tax consequences of exercising the Option or any other matters related to this Agreement. If you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, in order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you.
(b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the exercise of the Option by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered upon exercise of the Option having a Fair Market Value equal to the
 
amount of such taxes or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
 
In the event that the Committee administering the Plan shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the shares covered by the Option such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee administering the Plan to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Agreement, then the Committee administering the Plan shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, in its sole discretion, adjust any or all of the number and type of the shares covered by the Option and the exercise price of the Option.
 
(a) . This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest.
Interpretations
(b) . Neither you nor your legal representatives shall have any of the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option unless and until such shares are issued upon exercise of the Option.
No Rights as a Shareholder
(c) . Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company or to continue to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
No Right to Employment or Board Service
(d) . Except as otherwise provided by the Plan or by the Committee administering the Plan, the Option shall not be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you or, if permissible under applicable law, by your guardian or legal representative. The Option may not be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance of the Option shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.
Option Not Transferable
 
(e) . The Company shall at all times during the term of the Option reserve and keep available such number of shares of Common Stock as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement.
Reservation of Shares
(f) . The Company shall not be required to deliver any shares of Common Stock until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied.
Securities Matters
(g) . Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Headings
(h) . The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement.
Governing Law
(i) . You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address:
Notices
Darden Restaurants, Inc.
Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans
5500 Lake Ellenor Drive
Orlando, FL 32809
(j) . This Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement is attached to and made part of a Notice of Stock Option Grant and shall have no force or effect unless such Notice is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you.
Notice of Stock Option Grant
 

EXHIBIT 10(C)
 
 
This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is between Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"), and you, the person named in the attached Award Certificate who is an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. This Agreement is effective as of the date of grant set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Grant Date").
The Company wishes to award to you a number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, no par value (the "Common Stock"), subject to certain restrictions as provided in this Agreement, in order to carry out the purpose of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
Accordingly, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and you hereby agree as follows:
 
The Company hereby grants to you, effective as of the Grant Date, an Award of Restricted Stock for that number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the attached Award Certificate (the "Shares"), on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Award Certificate and in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
With respect to the Shares, you shall be entitled to exercise the rights of a shareholder of Common Stock of the Company, including the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive cash dividends thereon as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement, unless and until the Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 5 hereof. Your rights with respect to the Shares shall remain forfeitable at all times prior to the date or dates on which such rights become vested, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares lapse, in accordance with Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares shall vest, and the restrictions with respect to the Shares shall lapse, on the date or dates and in the amount or amounts set forth in the attached Award Certificate if you remain continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company until the respective vesting dates.
 
Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 above, but subject to the other terms and conditions in this Agreement, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined below) you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the restrictions with respect to all of the Shares shall lapse. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events:
(a) any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors;
(b) as a result of or in connection with any cash tender offer, exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons who were directors of the Company just prior to such event cease to constitute a majority of the Company's Board of Directors; or
(c) the consummation of a transaction in which the Company ceases to be an independent publicly-owned corporation or the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
(a) If you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, except that:
(i) if (A) the Company or an Affiliate of the Company terminates your employment involuntarily and not for cause (as determined by the Committee administering the Plan) prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, (B) your combined age and years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company equal at least 70 and (C) you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, then the Shares will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your termination of employment, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your termination of employment divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Shares, and your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited;
(ii) if you retire on or after age 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company ("Normal Retirement") prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the restrictions with respect to all Shares shall lapse on the date of your Normal Retirement;
(iii) if you retire on or after age 55 with ten years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company but before Normal Retirement ("Early Retirement") and you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, the Shares will vest on a pro rata basis on the date of your Early Retirement, based on the number of full months of employment completed from the Grant Date to the date of your Early Retirement divided by the number of full months in the vesting period for any unvested Shares, and your rights to all of the unvested Shares shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited; or
 
(iv) if you die prior to the vesting of the Shares pursuant to Section 3 or 4 hereof, you shall become immediately and unconditionally vested in all Shares and the restrictions with respect to all Shares shall lapse on the date of your death. No transfer by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution of any Shares which vest by reason of your death shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee administering the Plan shall have been furnished with written notice of such transfer and a copy of the will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer.
(b) If you did not hold the title of vice president or above at the Company, GMRI, Inc. or Darden Corporation on the Grant Date, and if, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Automatic Conversion Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then (i) as of the Automatic Conversion Date, your rights to all of the Shares that are unvested on the Automatic Conversion Date shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive cash dividends on such Shares, and (ii) you shall automatically receive, effective as of the Automatic Conversion Date, an award of restricted stock units under the Plan for that number of units equal to the number of Shares so forfeited, dated as of the Grant Date, with the same vesting schedule as provided in this Agreement and containing such other terms and conditions as are set forth in or established under the Plan.
(c) If, as determined in January of each year, you will attain the age of 65 with five years of service with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company during the one-year period beginning on the last business day of January of that year (the "Deposit Date") and ending on the last business day of January of the following year, then you may elect to place on deposit with the Company one personally owned share of Common Stock (the "Deposit Shares") for every two Shares that are unvested on the Deposit Date. If you withdraw any or all of the Deposit Shares before the Shares have vested, two Shares that are unvested will be forfeited for each Deposit Share withdrawn. The Company will release to you one Deposit Share for every two Shares that vest following the Deposit Date. In lieu of physical deposit of Share certificates with the Company, the Company may accept such other form or evidence of deposit as it deems appropriate.
 
Until the Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, none of the Shares may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, attached or otherwise encumbered, and no attempt to transfer the Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Shares.
 
(a) The Company shall cause the Shares to be issued in your name, either by book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. The Shares shall be restricted from transfer and shall be subject to an appropriate stop-transfer order. If any certificate is issued, the certificate shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to the Shares.
(b) If any certificate is issued, you shall be required to execute and deliver to the Company a stock power or stock powers relating to the Shares as a condition to the receipt of this Award of Restricted Stock.
(c) After any Shares vest pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 5 hereof, and following payment of the applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the Company shall promptly cause such vested Shares (less any shares withheld to pay taxes), free of the restrictions and/or legend described in Section 7(a) hereof, to be delivered, either by book-entry registration or in the form of a certificate or certificates, registered in your name or in the names of your legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be.
 
(a) If any Shares vest subsequent to any change in the number or character of the Common Stock of the Company (through any stock dividend or other distribution, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or otherwise) occurring after the Grant Date, you shall then receive upon such vesting the number and type of securities or other consideration which you would have received if such Shares had vested prior to the event changing the number or character of the outstanding Common Stock.
(b) Any additional shares of Common Stock of the Company, any other securities of the Company and any other property (except for cash dividends or other cash distributions) distributed with respect to the Shares prior to the date or dates the Shares vest shall be subject to the same restrictions, terms and conditions as the Shares to which they relate and shall be promptly deposited with the Secretary of the Company or a custodian designated by the Secretary.
(c) Any cash dividends or other cash distributions payable with respect to the Shares shall be distributed to you at the same time cash dividends or other cash distributions are distributed to shareholders of the Company generally.
 
(a) You acknowledge that you will consult with your personal tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of the grant of the Shares, payment of dividends on the Shares, the vesting of the Shares and any other matters related to this Agreement. In order to comply with all applicable federal, state or local income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state or local payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are your sole and absolute responsibility, are withheld or collected from you.
 
(b) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, and such rules as may be adopted by the Committee administering the Plan, you may elect to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or the lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares by (i) delivering cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer made payable to the order of the Company), (ii) having the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (iii) delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The Company will not deliver any fractional Share but will pay, in lieu thereof, the Fair Market Value of such fractional Share. Your election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
 
(a) . This Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon your request. Terms used herein which are defined in the Plan shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Plan, unless otherwise defined herein. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under this Agreement shall be determined by the Committee administering the Plan, and such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties in interest.
Interpretations
(b) . Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed as giving you the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate of the Company may at any time dismiss you from employment, free from any liability or any claim under this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
No Right to Employment
(c) . The Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares until the requirements of any federal or state securities or other laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any securities exchange) as may be determined by the Company to be applicable are satisfied.
Securities Matters
(d) . Headings are given to the sections and subsections of this Agreement solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Headings
(e) . The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Florida will govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of this Agreement.
Governing Law
(f) . You should send all written notices regarding this Agreement or the Plan to the Company at the following address:
Notices
Darden Restaurants, Inc.
Supervisor, Stock Compensation Plans
5900 Lake Ellenor Drive
Orlando, FL 32809
 
(g) . This Restricted Stock Award Agreement is attached to and made a part of an Award Certificate and shall have no force or effect unless such Award Certificate is duly executed and delivered by the Company to you.
Award Certificate
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
 
ORLANDO, FL, June 24  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported sales and diluted net earnings per share for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended May 25, 2008. In the fourth quarter, diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 7% to 72 cents, versus 67 cents in the prior year. The Company estimates that integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to the October 2007 acquisition of RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (RARE) reduced diluted net earnings per share by approximately six cents in the fourth quarter. Excluding the estimated integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments of approximately six cents, net earnings from continuing operations were 78 cents per diluted share.
For the fiscal year, diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 1% to $2.55 from $2.53 in the prior year. The Company estimates that integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of RARE reduced diluted net earnings per share by approximately 19 cents in the fiscal year. Excluding the estimated integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments of approximately 19 cents, net earnings from continuing operations were $2.74 per diluted share.
Fourth quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.83 billion, compared to $1.46 billion reported in the prior year, a 25% increase. Fiscal 2008 sales from continuing operations were $6.63 billion, which is a 19% increase from the prior year's sales from continuing operations of $5.57 billion. These increases reflect sales from the LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille brands as part of the RARE acquisition as well as meaningful new and same-restaurant sales growth at Olive Garden.
Darden reported fourth quarter diluted net earnings per share including discontinued operations of $0.71, compared to diluted net losses per share of $0.38 for the same period last year. Fiscal 2008 diluted net earnings per share including discontinued operations were $2.60, compared to $1.35 in the prior year.
 
"We once again delivered competitively superior financial results," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "And we were able to do so while making considerable strategic progress and navigating a challenging consumer and cost environment. As a result of our strategic progress, we have a portfolio of proven brands whose collective profitable sales growth prospects are quite strong, and we remain on track to achieve meaningful financial and operational synergies from our recent acquisition of RARE. These acquisition cost synergies reflect the power of our brand support platform, which we believe is one of the most effective and efficient in the full-service restaurant industry. All that we've been able to accomplish  strategically, operationally and financially  is because we have dedicated employees in both our restaurants and our support center. With great teams, strong brands, outstanding brand support and what we believe is the right strategy, we are confident we can deliver competitively strong results."
Highlights for the quarter and year ended May 25, 2008 include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
fourth quarter sales of $798 million were 11.0% above prior year, driven by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 5.8% and revenue from 39 net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, the company's increased food and beverage expenses and restaurant labor expenses were offset by lower restaurant expenses. Operating profit increased for the quarter due to higher sales. Olive Garden had record total sales and operating profit for the fiscal year. Total sales were $3.07 billion, a 10.0% increase from last year and average annual sales per restaurant were $4.9 million. U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 4.9% for the fiscal year.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
fourth quarter sales of $687 million were 0.5% below prior year, including a U.S. same-restaurant sales decrease of 0.2%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses more than offset the company's increased restaurant labor expenses, resulting in an increase in operating profit. Red Lobster had record total sales for the fiscal year. Total sales of $2.63 billion increased 1.0% from last year and average annual sales per restaurant were $3.9 million. U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 1.1% for the fiscal year.
RED LOBSTER'S
fourth quarter sales of $225 million were 6.5% above the same period included in RARE's prior year results, driven by revenue from 24 net new restaurants, partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 3.1%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, the company's increased food and beverage expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses, were partially offset by lower restaurant labor expenses. Restaurant expenses, selling, general, and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses were adversely affected by integration-related costs and purchase accounting adjustments. LongHorn Steakhouse had record total sales for the fiscal year. Total sales since acquisition of $575 million increased 6.9% from the comparable period last year. Average annual sales per restaurant were $2.9 million. U.S. same-restaurant sales decreased 1.9% for the fiscal year.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
fourth quarter sales of $65 million were 11.8% above the same period included in RARE's prior year results, driven by the addition of four net new restaurants, partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 3.8%. Total sales since acquisition were $170 million. Average annual sales per restaurant were $8.1 million. The Capital Grille's same-restaurant sales decreased 1.1% for the fiscal year.
THE CAPITAL GRILLE'S
'fourth quarter sales of $37 million were 3.8% below prior year's sales from continuing operations, driven by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 3.7%. Total sales for the fiscal year were $135 million and average annual sales per restaurant were $5.9 million. Bahama Breeze's same-restaurant sales decreased 1.8% for the fiscal year.
BAHAMA BREEZE
S
"While this was a challenging quarter and fiscal year, our brands have once again produced competitively superior results and outperformed the industry," said Drew Madsen, President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden. "Olive Garden delivered remarkably strong performance and achieved its 55
th
consecutive quarter of same-restaurant sales growth while also adding 39 net new restaurants this fiscal year. Red Lobster once again exceeded the Knapp-Track industry benchmark for same-restaurant sales and is now prepared to grow units. And, same-restaurant sales at LongHorn Steakhouse  while below the Knapp-Track national average  compare favorably to industry benchmark results for the geographic regions in which it operates. The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 also delivered competitively solid operating performance this quarter and fiscal year, and we are excited about the growth potential for each of these brands."
 
 
Other Actions
Darden's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 20 cents per share on the Company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on August 1, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on July 10, 2008. Previously, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of 18 cents per share. Based on the 20 cent quarterly dividend declaration, the Company's indicated annual dividend is 80 cents per share, an increase of more than 11%.
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 201,525 shares in the fourth quarter. In fiscal 2008, the Company spent $159 million purchasing 5.0 million shares. Since commencing its repurchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased almost 147 million shares for $2.78 billion under authorizations totaling 162.4 million shares. The Company's current expectation is that it will repurchase approximately $200 million to $225 million of its common stock in fiscal 2009.
Darden's Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on September 12, 2008 at the Hyatt Regency Orlando International Airport in Orlando, FL. The record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting is July 21, 2008.
Fiscal March, April and May 2008 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of March, April and May as follows:
 
Fiscal 2009 Financial Outlook
Darden announced that it expects combined U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2009 of approximately 2% for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, and that it expects to open approximately 75 to 80 net new restaurants in fiscal 2009. As a result, the Company expects total sales growth of between 14% and 15% in fiscal 2009, compared to reported sales from continuing operations of $6.63 billion in fiscal 2008. This total sales growth includes the two percentage point impact of the 53
rd
week in fiscal 2009; excluding the 53
rd
week, the expected total sales growth would be approximately 12% to 13%.
 
 
The Company also announced that it anticipates reported diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations of 14% to 15% in fiscal 2009, which includes the impact of the 53
rd
week. This compares to reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.55 in fiscal 2008. The additional week is expected to contribute approximately two percentage points, or $0.05, of growth in fiscal 2009
Excluding the estimated integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments of approximately 19 cents in fiscal 2008, net earnings from continuing operations were $2.74 per diluted share. In fiscal 2009, these costs and adjustments are estimated to be approximately 6 to 7 cents per diluted share. Excluding the impact of these costs and adjustments for both fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, the Company expects diluted net earnings per share growth of 9% to 10% on a 53-week basis and 7% to 8% on a 52-week basis.
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with almost $6.7 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. The Company owns and operates over 1,700 restaurants including Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52. For more information, please visit .
www.Darden.com
Forward-looking statements in this news release are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements could address future economic performance, restaurant openings, various financial parameters, or similar matters. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include the impact of intense competition, changing economic or business conditions, the price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities, supply interruptions, labor and insurance costs, increased advertising and marketing costs, higher-than-anticipated costs to open or close restaurants, litigation, unfavorable publicity, a lack of suitable locations, government regulations, a failure to achieve growth objectives through the opening of new restaurants or the development or acquisition of new dining concepts, weather conditions, risks associated with Darden's plans to expand Darden's newer concepts Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, our ability to combine and integrate the business of RARE Hospitality International, Inc., achieve synergies and develop new LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants, risks associated with incurring substantial additional debt and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition to GAAP reporting, as previously disclosed herein, Darden has adjusted its consolidated results from continuing operations for the quarter and fiscal year ended May 25, 2008 to exclude the impact of integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments. Darden believes this adjusted information is useful for comparison to our consolidated results from continuing operations for the quarter and fiscal year ended May 27, 2007, and has therefore chosen to provide this information to investors. Darden also uses this information internally to evaluate and manage its operations and to determine incentive compensation. Additionally, Darden has presented its adjusted forecasted consolidated results from operations for fiscal 2009, which exclude the impact of integration costs and purchase accounting adjustments and the impact of the 53
rd
week. Darden believes this adjusted information is useful for comparison to our consolidated results from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended May 25, 2008, and has therefore chosen to provide this information to investors. This non-GAAP earnings measure should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our diluted net earnings per share as calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


