FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20081103171212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 3, 2008, the Board of Directors of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") increased the number of directors of the Company from 11 to 12, and elected Christopher J. (CJ) Fraleigh to serve as a director, all effective November 3, 2008, as further described in the press release dated November 3, 2008, entitled "Darden Restaurants, Inc. Announces New Board Member," a copy of which is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The Board determined that, in its judgment, Mr. Fraleigh satisfies the requirements for "independence" set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange. There were no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Fraleigh was elected or any relationships or related transactions between the Company and Mr. Fraleigh of the type required to be disclosed under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules. The Board has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Mr. Fraleigh will be named. As a non-employee director, Mr. Fraleigh will receive the compensation under the Company's Director Compensation Program described on pages 24-25 of the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on August 4, 2008, the description of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 3, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ORLANDO, Fla., November 3, 2008  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) has elected Christopher J. (CJ) Fraleigh, executive vice president and chief operating officerNorth America of Sara Lee Corporation, to its board of directors effective November 3, 2008. Darden owns and operates Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 restaurants.
"CJ Fraleigh brings a wealth of leadership experience to Darden, particularly in the areas of brand building, marketing innovation and operations excellence," said Clarence Otis, Darden's chairman and chief executive officer. "He is a highly respected business leader and will be a tremendous asset to our board and to our company as we continue to grow our industry-leading portfolio of brands."
Fraleigh, 45, has served as executive vice president of Sara Lee Corporation and chief operating officer  North America since November 2007. He served as chief executive officer of Sara Lee Food & Beverage from January 2005 to November 2007.
Prior to joining Sara Lee, Fraleigh was general manager of General Motors Corporation's GMC-Buick-Pontiac division during 2004 and executive director of advertising and corporate marketing from 2001 to 2004. Prior to that, he was a vice president at PepsiCo., Inc.
"I'm excited to be joining the board of the nation's leading full-service restaurant company," Fraleigh said. "Darden's brands and its leadership are renowned throughout the industry, and I look forward to being a part of this outstanding team."
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with almost $6.7 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. The Company owns and operates more than 1,700 restaurants including Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com


