FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20100921164333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated September 21, 2010, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 19% Increase In First Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Announces Quarterly Dividend Of 32 Cents Per Share," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 21, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
 
 
ORLANDO, FL, Sept. 21  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported sales and diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal first quarter ended August 29, 2010. In the first quarter, diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 19% to 80 cents, versus 67 cents in the prior year.
First quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.81 billion, compared to $1.73 billion in the prior year, a 4.2% increase. Blended same-restaurant sales for Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse were up 1.1% this quarter, which compares to an estimate of 0.0% for the Knapp-Track benchmark of U.S. same-restaurant sales, excluding Darden.
"We are pleased with our very strong financial performance this quarter and encouraged by the continued improvement in industry sales trends," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "Same-restaurant sales results for the Knapp-Track benchmark were one percentage point better in this quarter than in our last fiscal quarter. And, on a blended basis, our three core brands once again exceeded the industry average. Though it's improving, the environment remains challenging. With our competitively strong brands and the talented people who drive them, we are confident we can continue to successfully handle the challenges. In fiscal 2011, we will remain focused on delivering another year of superior sales results and earnings growth while doing what's necessary to position ourselves for sustainable, long-term success."
Highlights for the quarter ended August 29, 2010 include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
first quarter sales of $877 million were 6.8% above prior year, driven by revenue from 32 net new restaurants and its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 2.7%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and depreciation expenses were partially offset by increased food and beverage expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. The net result was an increase in returns and absolute operating profit for the quarter.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
first quarter sales of $600 million were 0.8% below prior year, driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales decrease of 1.7%, partially offset by revenue from four net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses and restaurant expenses were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses. Absolute operating profit and returns increased for the quarter.
RED LOBSTER'S
first quarter sales of $226 million were 6.8% above prior year, driven by revenue from 12 net new restaurants and its same-restaurant sales increase of 2.2%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses and depreciation expenses were partially offset by increased restaurant expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, resulting in an increase in returns and absolute operating profit for the quarter.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
first quarter sales of $107 million were 11.7% above prior year driven by same-restaurant sales increases of 2.7% at The Capital Grille and 5.8% at Seasons 52 offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 0.1% at Bahama Breeze. Additionally, sales growth was driven by revenue from three new restaurants each at The Capital Grille and Seasons 52 and one new restaurant at Bahama Breeze. The Capital Grille's first quarter sales of $54 million were 8.7% above the prior year results. Bahama Breeze's first quarter sales of $37 million were 4.4% above the prior year results. Seasons 52's first quarter sales of $16 million were 51% above the prior year results.
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUP'S
 
 
Fiscal June, July and August 2010 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported that U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of June, July and August were as follows:
 
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Darden affirmed that it continues to anticipate, as previously reported, that reported diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 will be approximately +14% to +17%. This compares to reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.86 in fiscal 2010. The Company reported that its earnings expectations for the fiscal year are based on (1) blended U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2011 for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse of approximately +2% to +3%; (2) the opening of approximately 70 to 75 net new restaurants in fiscal 2011; and (3) total sales growth in fiscal 2011 of between +5.5% and +6.5%. Each of these estimates is consistent with the Company's outlook disclosed at the beginning of the year.
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with over $7.1 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com
 
 
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected diluted net earnings per share growth and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, total sales growth, stock repurchases, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, health concerns including virus outbreaks, the intensely competitive nature of the restaurant industry, factors impacting our ability to drive sales growth, the impact of the indebtedness we incurred in the RARE acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, the price and availability of key food products and utilities, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, volatility in the market value of derivatives, general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, severe weather conditions, disruptions in the financial markets, a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


