FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20100323171237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated March 23, 2010, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 22% Increase In Third Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Increases Annual Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Outlook; Announces Quarterly Dividend Of 25 Cents Per Share," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 23, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
 
 
ORLANDO, FL, Mar. 23  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported sales and diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2010. In the third quarter, diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 22% to 95 cents, versus 78 cents in the prior year.
Third quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.87 billion, compared to $1.80 billion in the prior year period, a 4.2% increase. Blended same-restaurant sales for Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse increased 1.3% this quarter compared to the prior year period. Excluding the impact of the Thanksgiving holiday week, which was in the fiscal second quarter this year but the fiscal third quarter last year, blended same-restaurant sales rose 0.5%. The 0.5% holiday-adjusted increase compares to an estimated decline of 4.3% for the Knapp-Track benchmark of U.S. same-restaurant sales, excluding Darden. The Company estimates that its holiday-adjusted blended same-restaurant sales for the quarter were adversely affected 60 basis points by more severe weather this year than last.
"We're pleased to report even stronger sales and earnings growth than anticipated when we released preliminary projections for the quarter in mid-February," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "This was our first quarter of positive blended same-restaurant sales in nearly two years and results have gotten better each quarter this fiscal year. We're also encouraged by the improving comparable sales trends in our industry as measured by the Knapp-Track benchmark. Importantly, as industry trends improve Darden continues to gain share, outperforming the benchmark by a wider margin this quarter than in the first two quarters of our fiscal year. We believe we're successful because we have trusted brands and talented, energized teams. Those teams have done a wonderful job navigating through the downturn and our brands are well-positioned for sustainable growth as the economy recovers. In light of this, we're once again revising upward our same-restaurant sales and earnings per share forecasts for the fiscal year."
Highlights for the quarter ended February 28, 2010 include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
third quarter sales of $870 million were 5.2% above the prior year period, driven by revenue from 31 net new restaurants and a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 1.5%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses and restaurant expenses more than offset higher labor expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. As a result, operating profit increased on a percentage of sales and absolute basis for the quarter.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
third quarter sales of $655 million were 1.9% above the prior year period, driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 0.9% and revenue from four net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses and restaurant expenses more than offset the company's increased restaurant labor expenses and selling, general, and administrative expenses. As a result, operating profit increased on a percentage of sales and absolute basis for the quarter.
RED LOBSTER'S
third quarter sales of $238 million were 4.5% above the prior year period, driven by a same-restaurant sales increase of 1.9% and revenue from eight net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses and restaurant expenses more than offset the company's increased restaurant labor expenses, selling, general, and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses. As a result, operating profit increased on a percentage of sales and absolute basis for the quarter.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
third quarter sales of $69 million were 13.7% above the prior year period, driven by the addition of five net new restaurants partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 1.9%.
THE CAPITAL GRILLE'S
 
' third quarter sales of $29 million were 3.1% above the prior year period, driven by the addition of one net new restaurant and partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease of 0.6%.
BAHAMA BREEZE
S
Other Actions
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 0.4 million shares in the third quarter and anticipates that it may repurchase up to an aggregate of $75 million of its common stock in fiscal 2010.
Darden's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 25 cents per share on the Company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on May 3, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 9, 2010.
Fiscal December, January and February 2010 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported that U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of December, January and February were as follows:
 
Fiscal December same-restaurant sales results benefited from the shift in the Thanksgiving holiday, which was in fiscal December last year but fiscal November this year. In addition to the Thanksgiving holiday shift, a number of other factors affected monthly same-restaurant sales and traffic results for all three brands this quarter. These include (1) a shift to fiscal December this year from fiscal January last year in the New Year's holiday (which positively affected December and adversely affected January); (2) a Sunday Valentine's Day this year vs. a Saturday Valentine's Day last year (which positively affected February results for all three brands); (3) an earlier start to the Lenten season this year (which positively affected Red Lobster's, and adversely affected LongHorn Steakhouse's, February results); and (4) more severe winter weather for much of the quarter this year compared to last year. Please see the table below for additional information.
 
Fiscal December, January and February 2010 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Impacts
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
Darden announced that it now expects reported diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations of +8% to +10% in fiscal 2010 compared to reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, which were $2.65. This compares to its prior diluted net earnings per share growth expectation for fiscal 2010 of +5% to +8%, which the Company provided in February in connection with the pre-release of estimated fiscal third quarter results. The Company's current earnings expectation for fiscal 2010 anticipates blended U.S. same-restaurant sales for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse of approximately -2.5%.
Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2010 Estimated Diluted Net Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with over $7.2 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com
 
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected earnings per share and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, stock repurchases, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include the impact of intense competition, changing economic or business conditions, the price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities, supply interruptions, labor and insurance costs, the loss of or difficulties in recruiting key personnel, information technology failures, increased advertising and marketing costs, higher-than-anticipated costs to open or close restaurants, litigation, unfavorable publicity, health concerns, including virus outbreaks and food safety, a lack of suitable locations, government regulations, a failure to achieve growth objectives through the opening of new restaurants or the development or acquisition of new dining brands, weather conditions, risks associated with Darden's plans to expand Darden's newer brands Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, our ability to achieve the full anticipated benefits of the RARE acquisition, possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill, or other intangible assets, risks associated with incurring substantial additional debt, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, disruptions in the financial markets, volatility in the market value of our derivatives and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


