FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20101220170836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated December 20, 2010, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports 26% Increase In Second Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Announces Quarterly Dividend Of 32 Cents Per Share and Additional Share Repurchase Authorization," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 20, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
            
www.darden.com
 
ORLANDO, FL, Dec. 20  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported sales and diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal second quarter ended November 28, 2010. In the second quarter, diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 26% to 54 cents, versus 43 cents in the prior year.
Second quarter sales from continuing operations were $1.73 billion, compared to $1.64 billion in the prior year, a 5.2% increase. Same-restaurant sales for the quarter were up 2.0% at Olive Garden and 6.8% at LongHorn Steakhouse and down 1.6% at Red Lobster, representing a 1.4% increase on a combined basis. This compares to an estimated 1.0% increase for the quarter in the Knapp-Track benchmark for U.S. same-restaurant sales, excluding Darden.
In addition to Darden's same-restaurant sales growth, the 5.2% increase in total sales from continuing operations for the quarter reflects the addition of 63 net new restaurants compared to the prior year and represents continued market share growth for the Company.
"Our results this quarter are a clear demonstration of Darden's earnings growth capability," said Clarence Otis, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "The keys to our performance are strong brands, an effective and efficient support platform and well prepared and committed teams. During the economic downturn, we continued to invest in strengthening each of these success drivers and in consistent expansion of our brands through new restaurant growth. Darden successfully navigated an extended period of declining same-restaurant sales across the industry, delivering sustained earnings growth and steady growth in market share. As the economy recovers and same-restaurant sales turn positive, we believe we are well positioned to generate meaningfully higher earnings growth while growing sales at a level that continues to build market share. This quarter provides compelling evidence of that positioning."
Highlights for the quarter ended November 28, 2010 include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Highlights
second quarter sales of $828 million were 5.8% above prior year, driven by revenue from 33 net new restaurants and its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 2.0%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses were partially offset by increased food and beverage expenses. The net result was an increase in returns and absolute operating profit for the quarter.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
second quarter sales of $556 million were 1.1% below prior year, driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales decrease of 1.6%, partially offset by revenue from two net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses and restaurant expenses were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses. Absolute operating profit and returns increased for the quarter.
RED LOBSTER'S
second quarter sales of $224 million were 12.4% above prior year, driven by revenue from 17 net new restaurants and its same-restaurant sales increase of 6.8%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and depreciation expenses were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses, resulting in an increase in returns and absolute operating profit for the quarter.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
second quarter sales of $115 million were 18.9% above prior year driven by same-restaurant sales increases of 5.6% at The Capital Grille, 3.2% at Bahama Breeze and 3.8% at Seasons 52. Additionally, sales growth reflected revenue from four new restaurants at The Capital Grille, one new restaurant at Bahama Breeze and seven new restaurants at Seasons 52. The Capital Grille's second quarter sales of $66 million were 12.4% above the prior year. Bahama Breeze's second quarter sales of $30 million were 8.2% above the prior year. And Seasons 52's second quarter sales of $19 million were 85% above the prior year.
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUP'S
 
Fiscal September, October and November 2010 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported that U.S. same-restaurant sales for its three large brands for the fiscal months of September, October and November as compared to the prior year were as follows:
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
Darden affirmed that it continues to anticipate that diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 will be approximately +14% to +17%, which is consistent with the Company's outlook at the beginning of the year. This compares to reported diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.86 in fiscal 2010. The Company also reported that its earnings expectations for the fiscal year are based on (1) blended U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2011 for Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse of approximately +2%; (2) the opening of approximately 70 to 75 net new restaurants in fiscal 2011; and (3) total sales growth of between +5% and +6% in fiscal 2011.
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with over $7.1 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com
 
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected diluted net earnings per share growth and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, total sales growth, stock repurchases, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, health concerns including virus outbreaks, the intensely competitive nature of the restaurant industry, factors impacting our ability to drive sales growth, the impact of the indebtedness we incurred in the RARE acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, the price and availability of key food products and utilities, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, volatility in the market value of derivatives, general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, severe weather conditions, disruptions in the financial markets, a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


