FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20110630164935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated June 30, 2011, entitled "Darden Restaurants Reports A 23 Percent Increase In Fourth Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share And a 19 Percent Increase In Fiscal Year Diluted Net Earnings Per Share; Increases Its Quarterly Dividend 34 Percent," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 30, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
 
 
ORLANDO, FL, June 30  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share and sales for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended May 29, 2011.
Highlights for the quarter and fiscal year include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our strong fourth quarter completes a very successful year for Darden," said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. "It is success that's grounded in talented teams in our restaurants and restaurant support center who work diligently every day to deliver on our promises to guests and shareholders alike. These teams have built a powerful portfolio of brands whose sales are growing at a rate much faster than our industry  extending our already significant market share leadership position. Our teams are translating that sales growth into consistent margin improvement and strong earnings growth by embracing the many opportunities we've identified to make our operating platform even more cost effective."
"We expect fiscal 2012 to be somewhat stronger but in many ways much like 2011, with continued  albeit frustratingly slow  recovery in the economy and in our industry," Otis continued. "And I'm confident that our teams will continue to build guest loyalty and that they will deliver another year of superior sales and earnings growth."
Operating Highlights
fourth quarter sales of $881 million were 3.9% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 31 net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses were more than offset by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Depreciation expense as a percent of sales was unchanged. The net result was an increase in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter. Total fiscal year sales were $3.49 billion, a 5.2% increase from last year. Average annual sales per restaurant were $4.8 million and U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 1.2%.
OLIVE GARDEN'S
fourth quarter sales of $701 million were 5.6% higher than the prior year, driven by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 3.8% and revenue from four net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses were more than offset by lower restaurant labor expenses and restaurant expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses were unchanged as a percent of sales. The net result was an increase in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter. Total fiscal year sales were $2.52 billion, a 1.3% increase compared to last year. Average annual sales per restaurant were $3.6 million and U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 0.3% for the fiscal year.
RED LOBSTER'S
fourth quarter sales of $266 million were 14.1% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 23 net new restaurants and a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 6.0%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses and depreciation expenses were more than offset by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. The net result was an increase in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter. Total fiscal year sales were $984 million, an 11.6% increase from last year. Average annual sales per restaurant were $2.9 million and U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 5.4% for the fiscal year.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
 
 
fourth quarter sales of $141 million were 19.3% higher than prior year, driven by same-restaurant sales increases of 7.9% at The Capital Grille, 2.0% at Bahama Breeze and 2.2% at Seasons 52. Additionally, sales growth reflected revenue from four new restaurants at The Capital Grille, one new restaurant at Bahama Breeze and six new restaurants at Seasons 52. At The Capital Grille, average annual sales per restaurant were $6.5 million and same-restaurant sales increased 6.2% for the fiscal year. At Bahama Breeze, average annual sales per restaurant were $5.5 million and same-restaurant sales increased 2.4% for the fiscal year. At Seasons 52, average annual sales per restaurant were $6.3 million and same-restaurant sales increased 4.4% for the fiscal year.
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUP'S
Fiscal March, April and May 2011 U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of March, April and May as follows:
 
 
 
Please note that a later Lenten season and Easter this year positively affected Red Lobster's March and April same-restaurant sales results by 0.2 and 1.6 percentage points, respectively, and Red Lobster's April same-restaurant sales were also positively affected by 1.2 percentage points due to one additional week of its signature Lobsterfest promotion compared to prior year. The holiday shifts also positively affected LongHorn Steakhouse's March same-restaurant sales by 0.8 percentage points but adversely affected its April same-restaurant sales by 1.8 percentage points. In addition, Olive Garden's same-restaurant sales for each month of the quarter were adversely affected by approximately 1.0 percentage point due to the timing of its annual price increase, which occurred early in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 but did not take place in this year's fourth quarter.
 
 
Other Actions
Darden's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 43 cents per share on the Company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on August 1, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on July 11, 2011. Previously, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of 32 cents per share. Based on the 43 cents per share quarterly dividend declaration, the Company's indicated annual dividend is $1.72 per share, an increase of 34%.
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 2.3 million shares in the fourth quarter. In fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased $385 million of its stock, or more than 8.6 million shares. Since commencing its repurchase program in December 1995, the Company has purchased over 162 million shares for $3.40 billion under authorizations totaling 187.4 million shares.
Darden's Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on September 22, 2011 at the Hyatt Regency Orlando International Airport in Orlando, FL. The record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting is July 29, 2011.
Fiscal 2012 Financial Outlook
"With our expectation that economic recovery will continue at a modest pace in fiscal 2012, we are assuming blended same-restaurant sales growth for the year for our three large casual dining brands, Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse, of approximately +2.5%  exceeding what we achieved in fiscal 2011," said Brad Richmond, Darden's Chief Financial Officer. "And, through the first month of the fiscal year, we're off to a very solid start. Given the strong long-term prospects of our brands, we are also accelerating new restaurant growth in fiscal 2012, and expect to open approximately 80 to 90 net new restaurants, or 10 to 20 more than in fiscal 2011. So, total sales growth is expected to be between +6% and +7%. We expect the combination of this level of sales growth and continued implementation of the transformational cost reduction initiatives we've outlined before will drive continued margin improvement in fiscal 2012, despite more elevated food cost inflation. As a result, we expect our diluted net earnings per share growth for fiscal 2012 to be between +12% and +15%, which is in the top-half of the long-term range we target."
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the world's largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with over $7.5 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com
 
 
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected earnings per share and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, stock repurchases, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, health concerns including virus outbreaks, the intensely competitive nature of the restaurant industry, factors impacting our ability to drive sales growth, the impact of the indebtedness we incurred in the RARE acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, the price and availability of key food products and utilities, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, volatility in the market value of derivatives, general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, severe weather conditions, disruptions in the financial markets, a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


