FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20110928072654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: September 22, 2011
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 1-13666
 
1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(407) 245-4000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release dated September 28, 2011, entitled Darden Restaurants Reports First Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Of 78 Cents; Declares A Quarterly Dividend Of 43 Cents Per Share, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
2
        
    
In accordance with the voting results on this proposal, and the recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors in its 2011 Proxy Statement, the Company will include an advisory shareholder vote on executive compensation in its proxy materials every year until the next shareholder vote on the frequency of the vote to approve executive compensation.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 28, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

EXHIBIT 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52
www.darden.com
DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS FIRST QUARTER DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE OF 78 CENTS; DECLARES A QUARTERLY DIVIDEND OF 43 CENTS PER SHARE
ORLANDO, FL, September 28  Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share and sales for the first quarter ended August 28, 2011.
Highlights for the quarter include the following:
 First quarter diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations were 78 cents, a 3% decrease from the 80 cents per diluted share in the first quarter of last year. Net earnings from continuing operations in this years first quarter were $106.8 million and sales were $1.94 billion, which compare to net earnings from continuing operations of $113.3 million and sales of $1.81 billion in the first quarter last year. The Company estimated that Hurricane Irene adversely affected diluted net earnings per share for the first quarter this year by approximately two cents.
 First quarter total sales from continuing operations of $1.94 billion were a 7.5% increase from the prior year. The increase reflects (1) combined same-restaurant sales growth of 2.8% for Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse, exceeding an estimated 1.0% increase for the Knapp-Track benchmark of U.S. same-restaurant sales excluding Darden; (2) same-restaurant sales growth of 5.1% for the Companys Specialty Restaurant Group; and (3) the operation of 71 net new restaurants compared to the first quarter last year. In the first quarter, U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 10.7% at Red Lobster and 4.8% at LongHorn Steakhouse, and decreased 2.9% at Olive Garden.
 During the first quarter, Darden purchased 1.9 million shares of its common stock.
 Dardens Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 43 cents per share.
 
As we previously announced, strong sales growth this quarter at Red Lobster, LongHorn Steakhouse and our Specialty Restaurant Group was offset by below expectation sales results at Olive Garden, unfavorable year-over-year commodity costs and the adverse impact of Hurricane Irene, said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. Olive Garden remains one of the strongest brands in the full-service restaurant industry and we are working to improve its sales performance during the balance of the year. With improvement at Olive Garden, continued sales momentum at the other brands, more neutral commodity cost comparisons in the second half of the year and a meaningful increase in the number of shares we will repurchase, we anticipate diluted net earnings per share growth of 12% to 15% this fiscal year - though we have higher confidence at this point in the year in the low end of the range.
1
Operating Highlights
OLIVE GARDENS
first quarter sales of $884 million were 0.8% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 30 net new restaurants that offset the 2.9% decline in U.S. same-restaurant sales. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expense resulted in a decrease in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter.
RED LOBSTERS
first quarter sales of $674 million were 12.3% higher than the prior year, driven by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 10.7% and revenue from five net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses, offset partially by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expenses, resulted in a decrease in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter. These results reflect strong same-restaurant traffic growth that was supported by an investment in maintaining guest affordability.
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSES
first quarter sales of $253 million were 12.1% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 23 net new restaurants and the U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 4.8%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses and depreciation expenses, offset partially by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, resulted in a decrease in operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales for the quarter. These results reflect strong same-restaurant traffic growth that was supported by an investment in maintaining guest affordability.
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUPS
first quarter sales of $129 million were 20.7% higher than prior year, driven by same-restaurant sales increases of 7.0% at The Capital Grille, 2.9% at Bahama Breeze and 2.5% at Seasons 52. Additionally, sales growth reflected revenue from four new restaurants at The Capital Grille, one new restaurant at Bahama Breeze and seven new restaurants at Seasons 52.
2
Fiscal 2012 June, July and August U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of June, July and August as follows:
* Note: Same-restaurant sales results in August were adversely affected by approximately 80 basis points due to Hurricane Irene which caused 151 days of restaurant closures.
Other Actions
Dardens Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 43 cents per share on the Companys outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on November 1, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 11, 2011.
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 1.9 million shares in the first quarter. There are approximately 22.8 million shares remaining in the current repurchase authorization.
Fiscal 2012 Financial Outlook
Darden affirmed that it expects combined full-year U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2012 of approximately +3% for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, and that it continues to expect to open approximately 80 to 90 net new restaurants in fiscal 2012. As a result, the Company expects total sales growth of between 6.5% and 7.5% in fiscal 2012. The Company also affirmed it anticipates that diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 will be towards the lower end of its previously announced range of 12% and 15%.
3
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI) headquartered in Orlando, Fla., is the worlds largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company with over $7.5 billion in annual sales and approximately 180,000 employees. Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit
www.darden.com
.
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected earnings per share and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, stock repurchases, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, failure to execute a business continuity plan following a disaster, health concerns including virus outbreaks, the intensely competitive nature of the restaurant industry, factors impacting our ability to drive sales growth, the impact of the indebtedness we incurred in the RARE acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, the price and availability of key food products and utilities, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, volatility in the market value of derivatives, general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, disruptions in the financial markets, risks of doing business with franchisees and vendors in foreign markets, failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property, a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, or changes in accounting standards, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
4
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
NUMBER OF RESTAURANTS
5
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
6
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
 
7
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
8


