FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20110516170341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release dated May 16, 2011, entitled "Darden Announces Leadership Changes at Red Lobster, Olive Garden and Other Key Roles, Draws on Deep Bench Strength to Bring Fresh Perspectives to Iconic Brands with New Energy," a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 7.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 16, 2011
4:45 P.M. ET
(May 16, 2011)  Drawing from its deep reservoir of leadership talent, Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE:DRI) today announced new assignments for the leaders of Red Lobster and Olive Garden, its two largest brands. The moves, which are part of a rotation of leadership in four senior positions in the company, demonstrate the benefits of Darden's long term commitment to developing talent and its ability to leverage its leaders' breadth to provide key roles with new energy and insight.
Orlando, FL
The following leadership appointments will take effect early in the new fiscal year which begins May 30, 2011:
 
 
 
Commenting on the moves, Darden's Chairman and CEO Clarence Otis said: "As we look to the future and work to build on Darden's long track record of competitively superior performance, we have a deep talent bench that can be leveraged to bring fresh perspectives to some of our most important leadership positions. The ability to reach across our business for talented and experienced professionals to lead us into the next phase of our growth reflects our consistent investment over many years in attracting, developing and nurturing outstanding individuals with a diverse array of skills."
Commenting on the contribution each of these leaders has made to the success of the company to date, Mr. Otis noted that, "Kim, Dave, John and JJ have each made a tremendous contribution in their current roles and we're delighted they've agreed to take on these new responsibilities."
Since all of the changes involve internal moves, the company anticipates a smooth transition and expects to continue to sustain solid sales and earnings momentum. Other members of Darden's leadership team will remain in their current roles and continue to make their own significant contributions to the company's growth and profitability.
Darden President and COO, Drew Madsen noted: "Our brands will benefit greatly from these changes. I am excited about the opportunity to leverage these talented individuals in new ways that can take our business to the next level. They are proven leaders who have directly contributed to our industry leading financial results over the past several years. Just as importantly, they also live out Darden's core values every day and help create a culture where our employees feel valued and motivated to deliver industry-leading performance."
About Darden Restaurants  Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI), the world's largest full-service restaurant company, owns and operates more than 1,850 restaurants that generate more than $7 billion in annual sales. Headquartered in Orlando, and employing approximately 180,000 people, Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. In 2011, Darden became the first full-service restaurant company ever to be named to the FORTUNE "100 Best Companies to Work For" list. Our restaurant brands  Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52  reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit .
www.darden.com
(DRI: G)


