FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20120323072132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: March 23, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 1-13666
 
1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(407) 245-4000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release dated March 23, 2012, entitled Darden Restaurants Reports Third Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Of $1.25; Declares A Quarterly Dividend Of 43 Cents Per Share, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 23, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse
The Capital Grille Bahama Breeze Seasons 52 Eddie V's
www.darden.com
DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS THIRD QUARTER DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE OF $1.25; DECLARES A QUARTERLY DIVIDEND OF 43 CENTS PER SHARE
ORLANDO, FL, March 23 - Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share and sales for the third quarter ended February 26, 2012.
 
Key results for the quarter include the following:
As we previously announced, we achieved strong sales growth this quarter across all of our brands. And while favorable weather certainly helped, each had excellent or improving underlying business strength. With our sales strength and deceleration in year-over-year food cost inflation, we were able to generate solid earnings growth even though food cost inflation remained elevated on an absolute basis, said Clarence Otis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Darden. We are particularly pleased with the progress Olive Garden is making to improve the value and overall guest experience it offers. With its continuing improvement, solid momentum at our other brands and moderating food cost inflation, we continue to anticipate strong earnings growth in the fourth quarter and remain excited about what we can achieve next year and beyond.
 
1
Operating Highlights
 
OLIVE GARDEN'S
third quarter sales of $957 million were 5.5% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 33 net new restaurants and its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 2.0%. On a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses and depreciation expense were more than offset by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, resulting in an increase in operating profit margin and operating profit for the quarter.
 
RED LOBSTER'S
third quarter sales of $712 million were 7.4% higher than the prior year, driven by its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 6.0% and revenue from eight net new restaurants. On a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses and depreciation expense offset lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, resulting in a decrease in operating profit margin for the quarter. On an absolute dollar basis, operating profit increased for the quarter.
 
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
third quarter sales of $311 million were 16.2% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 27 net new restaurants and its U.S. same-restaurant sales increase of 6.7%. On a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses and depreciation expense were more than offset by lower restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses, resulting in an increase in operating profit margin and operating profit for the quarter.
 
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUP'S
third quarter sales of $178 million were 27.8% higher than the prior year, driven by same-restaurant sales increases of 5.7% at The Capital Grille, 5.9% at Bahama Breeze and 6.1% at Seasons 52. Additionally, sales growth reflected revenue from one new restaurant at The Capital Grille, three new restaurants at Bahama Breeze, six new restaurants at Seasons 52 and the addition of 11 restaurants purchased from Eddie V's Restaurants, Inc. on November 14, 2011.
2
Fiscal 2012
December
,
January
and
February
U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of
December
,
January
and
February
as follows:
Note: Less severe winter weather than prior year positively affected reported monthly same-restaurant sales results for Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse by approximately 200 basis points in December, January and February. The Lenten season shift positively affected February same-restaurant sales at Red Lobster by approximately 480 basis points and adversely affected February same-restaurant sales at LongHorn Steakhouse by approximately 40 basis points. Blended same-restaurant sales results for the third quarter were positively affected by approximately 60 basis points due to the shift in the Lenten season.
Other Actions
Dardens Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of
43 cents
per share on the Companys outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on
May 1, 2012
to shareholders of record at the close of business on
April 10, 2012
.
Darden continued the buyback of its common stock, purchasing 1.8 million shares in the third quarter. There are approximately 16.9 million shares remaining in the current repurchase authorization.
Fiscal 2012 Financial Outlook
Darden affirmed that it expects combined full-year U.S. same-restaurant sales growth in fiscal 2012 of approximately 2.5% to 3.0% for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, and that it continues to expect to open approximately 85 to 90 net new restaurants (excluding the addition of 11 Eddie V's restaurants) in fiscal 2012. As a result, the Company expects total sales growth of between 7.0% and 7.5% in fiscal 2012. The Company also affirmed that it anticipates that diluted net earnings per share growth from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 will be in the range of 4% to 7%.
 
3
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI), the world's largest full-service restaurant company, owns and operates more than 1,900 restaurants that generate over $7.5 billion in annual sales. Headquartered in Orlando, Florida and employing 180,000 people, Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. In 2012, Darden was named to the FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For list for the second year in a row. Our restaurant brands - Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V's - reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit
www.darden.com
.
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected earnings per share and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the quarter and fiscal year, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, failure to execute a business continuity plan following a disaster, health concerns including virus outbreaks, the intensely competitive nature of the restaurant industry, factors impacting our ability to drive sales growth, the impact of the indebtedness we incurred in the RARE acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52, our ability to successfully integrate Eddie V's restaurant operations, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, the price and availability of key food products and utilities, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, volatility in the market value of derivatives, general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, severe weather conditions, disruptions in the financial markets, risks of doing business with franchisees and vendors in foreign markets, failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property, a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, or changes in accounting standards, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
4
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
NUMBER OF COMPANY-OWNED RESTAURANTS
5
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
6
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
 
7
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
8


