FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20120828151813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: August 22, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 1-13666
 
1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(407) 245-4000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Term Loan Agreement
. On August 22, 2012, Darden Restaurants, Inc. (we, us or the Company) entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement (the Term Loan Agreement) with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders (the Lenders) and other agents party thereto. The Term Loan Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99 to this Report.
The Company may make up to three borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement before November 22, 2012 in a total aggregate principal amount of up to $300 million. The Term Loan Agreement is a senior unsecured term loan commitment to the Company and contains customary representations and affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt and a maximum consolidated lease adjusted total debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.75 to 1.00). The Term Loan Agreement also contains events of default customary for term loan facilities of this type (with customary grace periods, as applicable), including nonpayment of principal or interest when due; material incorrectness of representations and warranties when made; breach of covenants; bankruptcy and insolvency; unsatisfied ERISA obligations; unstayed material judgment beyond specified periods; default under other material indebtedness; and certain changes of control of the Company. If any event of default occurs and is not cured within the applicable grace period, is amended or waived, the outstanding loans may be accelerated by Lenders holding a majority of the commitments under the Term Loan Agreement and the Lenders' commitments may be terminated.
The Term Loan Agreement matures on August 22, 2017, and the proceeds may be used for the refinancing of certain indebtedness, certain acquisitions and general corporate purposes. The loans under the Term Loan Agreement are subject to annual amortization of principal of 5%, 5%, 5% and 85%, payable on the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries, respectively, of the effective date of the Term Loan Agreement.
Interest rates on borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement will be based on prevailing interest rates as described in the Term Loan Agreement and, in part, upon our credit ratings. Pricing for interest and fees under the Term Loan Agreement may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of our long-term senior unsecured debt.
Certain of the Lenders and their affiliates have provided, from time to time, and may continue to provide, investment banking, commercial banking, financial and other services to us, including letters of credit, derivative transactions, transfer agent services, trustee and custodial services, depository services and account processing services, for which we have paid and intend to pay customary fees.
The preceding description of the Term Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Loan Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.
Private Placement
. On August 28, 2012, the Company issued Senior Notes (the Notes) to various institutional investors. The Notes were offered in a private placement transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  The Notes were issued in two tranches: (i) $80,000,000 3.79% Senior Notes due August 28, 2019, and (ii) $220,000,000 4.52% Senior Notes due August 28, 2024.  The Notes were issued pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement, dated June 18, 2012, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 20, 2012.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 28, 2012
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

Exhibit 99
$300,000,000
TERM LOAN AGREEMENT
Dated as of August 22, 2012
among
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
as Borrower,
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent,
and
THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO
____________________________________________
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
and
SUNTRUST BANK
as Syndication Agents,
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY, INC.,
and
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers
FIFTH THIRD BANK,
and
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.
as Co-Documentation Agents
___________________________________________
i
ii
SCHEDULES
2.01    Commitments and Applicable Percentages
7.01    Existing Material Liens
10.02    Administrative Agents Office, Certain Addresses for Notices
EXHIBITS
A    Form of Committed Loan Notice
B    Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement
C    Form of Note
D    Form of Compliance Certificate
E    Form of Assignment and Assumption
iii
TERM LOAN AGREEMENT
This TERM LOAN AGREEMENT (
Agreement
) is entered into as of August 22, 2012, among DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC., a Florida corporation (the 
Borrower
), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the 
Lenders
 and individually, a 
Lender
), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS
, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a senior term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000 for the purposes set forth herein, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE
, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
1.01
    
Defined Terms
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Acquisition
 means any transaction pursuant to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (a) acquires all or substantially all of the Equity Interests of any Person (other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower), or otherwise makes any Person a Subsidiary of the Borrower, or causes any Person other than a Subsidiary to be merged into the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (b) purchases all or substantially all of the business or assets of any Person (other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower).
Administrative Agent
 means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agents Office
 means the Administrative Agents address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on
Schedule 10.02
or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Questionnaire
 means an administrative questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Affiliate
 means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Agreement
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and means this Term Loan Agreement, as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Aggregate Commitments
 means the Commitments of all the Lenders which is, as of the Effective Date, $300,000,000 and which amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Applicable Percentage
 means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lenders Commitment at
1
such time, subject to adjustment as provided in
Section 2.16
. If the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to
Section 8.02
or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on
Schedule 2.01
or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Rate
 means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Debt Rating
 means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P, Moodys or Fitch (collectively, the 
Debt Ratings
) of the Borrowers non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt;
provided
that (a) if one of the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies falls within a different pricing level listed above (the 
Pricing Level
), then the Pricing Level shall be set based on the Pricing Level shared by the other two rating agencies; (b) if the Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies all fall within different Pricing Levels, then the Pricing Level shall be set based on the middle of such Pricing Levels; (c) if the Fitch Debt Rating is no longer available and there is a split in the remaining two Debt Ratings, then the Pricing Level shall be set based on the higher Debt Rating (
provided
that if the Debt Ratings are split by more than one Pricing Level, the Pricing Level shall be set based on the Pricing Level one level below the higher Debt Rating); (d) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level shall be set based on that Debt Rating; and (e) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level V shall apply.
Each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Approved Fund
 means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Assignee Group
 means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignment and Assumption
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by
Section 10.06(b)
, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of
Exhibit E
or any other form approved by the
2
Administrative Agent.
Audited Financial Statements
 means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal years ended May 29, 2011 and May 27, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders equity and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for each such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Availability Period
 means the period from and including the Effective Date to the earliest of (a) November 22, 2012
and (b) the date of termination of the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to
Section 8.02
. For the avoidance of doubt, upon the expiration of the Availability Period the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate.
Bank of America
 means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Base Rate
 means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus  of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00%. The prime rate is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of Americas costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate Loan
 means a Committed Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Board of Directors
 means, as to any Person, the board of directors or other governing body of such Person.
Borrower
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower Materials
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.02
.
Business Day
 means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agents Office with respect to Obligations is located and if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Capital Lease
 means, as applied to any Person, any lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which in accordance with GAAP, is or should be accounted for, as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.
Change in Law
 means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority;
provided
,
that
, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules,
3
guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a Change in Law, regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change of Control
 means, an event or series of events by which:
(a)
    
any person or group (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the beneficial owner within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the outstanding equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower; or
(b)
    
during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) of the Board of Directors of the Borrower shall be occupied by individuals who were not (i) members of the Board of Directors of the Borrower on the first day of such period, (ii) elected or nominated by the Board of Directors of the Borrower or (iii) elected or nominated by directors elected or nominated as referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above.
Code
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Co-Documentation Agents
 means each of Fifth Third Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.
Commitment
 means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.01
, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lenders name on
Schedule 2.01
or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Committed Borrowing
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type, and in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to
Section 2.01
.
Committed Loan
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.01
.
Committed Loan Notice
 means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to
Section 2.02(a)
, which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of
Exhibit A
.
Competitor
 means any Person designated by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent as a Competitor pursuant to a written notice in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. It is understood and agreed that such written notice(s) shall be posted to the Platform.
Compliance Certificate
 means a certificate substantially in the form of
Exhibit D
hereto.
Consolidated Capitalized Lease Obligations
 means, at any date of determination, the aggregate capitalized amount of obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under Capital Leases on such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
4
Consolidated Indebtedness
 means, at any date of determination, Indebtedness of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Operating Lease Obligations
 means, at any date of determination, the aggregate amount of lease and rental commitments (in the minimum amount required by the applicable lease or rental agreements) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the most recently ended period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, on a consolidated basis (such consolidation to be in accordance with GAAP), which are not classified as Consolidated Capitalized Lease Obligations hereunder.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
 means at any date Stockholders Equity minus the Intangible Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
 means the net book value of all assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
 means, at any date of determination, the sum of (a) Consolidated Indebtedness on such date plus (b) Excess Letter of Credit Obligations on such date plus (c) the product of (i) 6.25 multiplied by (ii) Consolidated Operating Lease Obligations on such date.
Consolidated Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio
 means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt to (b) the sum of (i) Stockholders Equity plus (ii) Consolidated Total Debt.
Contractual Obligation
 means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement or instrument to which such Person is a party.
Control
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
Controlling
 and 
Controlled
 have meanings correlative thereto.
Credit Extension
 means the funding of a Committed Borrowing hereunder.
Debt Rating
 has the meaning specified in the definition of 
Applicable Rate
.
Debtor Relief Laws
 means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Default
 means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default Rate
 means an interest rate equal to:
(a)
    
in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, the sum of (i) the Eurodollar Rate for such Loans
plus
(ii) the Applicable Rate,
plus
(iii) 2% per annum, and
(b)
    
in the case of Base Rate Loans and for all other Obligations, the sum of (i) the Base
5
Rate
plus
(ii) the Applicable Rate
plus
(iii) 2% per annum.
Defaulting Lender
 means, subject to
Section 2.16(b)
, any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Loans within three (3) Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless such obligation is the subject of a good faith dispute (b) has notified the Borrower or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided, that, a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any Equity Interests in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
Disposition
 or 
Dispose
 means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes issued by any other Person or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith or any capital stock of, or other Equity Interests in, any other Person.
Dollar
 and $ mean lawful money of the United States.
Effective Date
 means August 22, 2012.
Eligible Assignee
 means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
,
(v)
and
(vi)
(subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
).
Environmental Laws
 means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Equity Interests
 means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting.
ERISA
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA Affiliate
 means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
6
ERISA Event
 means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) the withdrawal of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which such entity was a substantial employer as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA, which in either case results in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, which in either case results in a Material Adverse Effect; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, or the treatment of a Pension Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, which in either case results in a Material Adverse Effect; (e) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan; (f) the institution of proceedings under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; or (g) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower (including such liability imposed upon Borrower in its capacity as an ERISA Affiliate of another entity).
Eurodollar Base Rate
 means:
(a)
    
for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (
BBA LIBOR
), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in Dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or (ii) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum reported by the Administrative Agent as the rate at which Dollar deposits for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period are offered by Bank of Americas London Branch (or the principal London office of the Administrative Agent, if other than Bank of Americas London Branch) to major banks in the London interbank market for Dollars at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
(b)
    
for any interest rate calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time determined two Business Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum reported by the Administrative Agent as the rate at which Dollar deposits for delivery on the date of determination in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained with a term equal to one month are offered by Bank of Americas London Branch (or the principal London office of the Administrative Agent, if other than Bank of Americas London Branch) to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
Eurodollar Rate
 means (a) for any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Eurodollar Base Rate for such Eurodollar Rate Loan for such Interest Period by (ii) one
minus
the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage for such Eurodollar Rate Loan for such Interest Period and (b) for any day with respect to any Base Rate Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Eurodollar Base Rate
7
for such Base Rate Loan for such day by (ii) one
minus
the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage for such Base Rate Loan for such day.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on clause (a) of the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurodollar fundings (currently referred to as Eurodollar liabilities). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Event of Default
 has the meaning specified in
Section 8.01
.
Excess Letter of Credit Obligations
 means, at any time, the amount by which (a) all unpaid reimbursement obligations and all amounts available to be drawn under all letters of credit of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis exceed (b) $150,000,000.
Excluded Taxes
 means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under
Section 10.13
), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office), except to the extent that the assignor to such Foreign Lender in the case of an assignment or the Lender in the case of a designation of a new Lending Office (for the absence of doubt other than the Lending Office at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto) was entitled, at the time of such assignment or designation of a new Lending Office, to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to
Section 3.01(a)
, (d) in the case of amounts payable to a recipient that is a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code, any backup withholding that is attributable to such recipients failure (or inability) to comply with
Section 3.01(e)
, (e) in the case of a Foreign Lender, any withholding tax that is attributable to such Foreign Lenders failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with
Section 3.01(e)
, (f) any U.S. federal withholding taxes imposed under FATCA and (g) any and all interest, additions to tax and penalties attributable to any taxes described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f).
FATCA
 means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof and any agreements entered into pursuant to Section 1471(b)(1) of the Code.
Federal Funds Rate
 means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day;
provided
that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate
8
for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
 means the fee letter agreements, each dated August 3, 2012, among the Borrower, and each of U.S. Bank, STRH, MLPFS, and the Administrative Agent.
Fitch
 means Fitch IBCA, Inc.
Foreign Lender
 means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. The term Foreign Lender shall also be deemed to include any Lender that is a disregarded entity or a foreign partnership or other pass-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes if such Lender has one or more foreign owners.
FRB
 means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
Fund
 means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
GAAP
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
Governmental Authority
 means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Guarantee
 means, as to any Person, any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of another Person (the primary obligor) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness of the payment of such Indebtedness, or (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness. The term Guarantee as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Hazardous Materials
 means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
9
Increase Effective Date
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.14(d)
.
Incremental Term Loan Lender
 means each of the Persons identified as an Incremental Term Loan Lender in the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement, together with their respective successors and assigns.
Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement
 means a joinder agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B
, executed and delivered in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.14
.
Incremental Term Loan
 shall have the meaning provided in
Section 2.01(b)
.
Incremental Term Loan Commitment
 means, as to each Incremental Term Loan Lender, the commitment of such Incremental Term Loan Lender to make the Incremental Term Loan hereunder pursuant to the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement;
provided
that, at any time after the funding of the Incremental Term Loan, determination of Required Lenders shall include the Outstanding Amount of the Incremental Term Loan and
provided
further
that the aggregate amount of all Incremental Term Loan Commitments shall not exceed $100,000,000.
Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date
 shall be as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement.
Indebtedness
 means, as of any date of determination, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder and obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments), (b) all direct obligations arising under bankers acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (c) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (d) all Consolidated Capitalized Lease Obligations, (e) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (d) above of Persons other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary (the amount of such Guarantees to be determined in accordance with GAAP), and (f) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (e) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Borrower or any such Subsidiary.
Indemnified Taxes
 means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnitees
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.04(b)
.
Information
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.07
.
Intangible Assets
 means assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries that are considered to be intangible assets under GAAP, including customer lists, goodwill, computer software, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, patents, franchises, licenses, unamortized deferred charges, unamortized debt discount and capitalized research and development costs.
Interest Payment Date
 means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date;
provided
,
however
, that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan,
10
the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Period
 means as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice;
provided
that:
(i)
    
any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day;
(ii)
    
any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)
    
no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date for the applicable Loan.
IRS
 means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
Joint Lead Arrangers
 means U.S. Bank, STRH and MLPFS.
Laws
 means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Lender
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes each Lender with a commitment to make Loans as designated in
Section 2.01
, or in an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto and each Incremental Term Loan Lender.
Lending Office
 means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lenders Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as to which a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lien
 means (a) any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge or other security interest, (b) the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, capital lease or other title retention agreement (but not an operating lease) and (c) any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Loan
 means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under
Article II
in the form of a Committed Loan, including an Incremental Term Loan.
Loan Documents
 means this Agreement, each Note, an Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement, and the Fee Letters.
11
Loan Notice
 means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to
Section 2.02(a)
, which, in each case, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of
Exhibit A
hereto.
Margin Regulations
 means Regulations T, U and X of the FRB.
Margin Stock
 has the meaning specified in the Margin Regulations.
Material Adverse Effect
 means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business or properties of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of any Loan Document.
Material Indebtedness
 means, at any date, any Indebtedness (excluding any Indebtedness outstanding hereunder), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Contracts, of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary, having an aggregate outstanding principal amount exceeding the Threshold Amount on such date. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the principal amount of the obligations of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Contract at any time shall be the aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that such Person would be required to pay if such Swap Contract were terminated at the close of business on such date.
Material Subsidiary
 means each Subsidiary of the Borrower that the Borrower includes in Exhibit 21 to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 601(b)(21) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Maturity Date
 means August 22, 2017.
MLPFS
 means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
Moodys
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Multiemployer Plan
 means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiple Employer Plan
 means a Plan which has two or more contributing sponsors (including the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate) at least two of whom are not under common control, as such a plan is described in Section 4064 of ERISA.
Note
 means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of
Exhibit C
hereto.
Obligations
 means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding. Without
12
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Documents include (a) the obligation to pay principal, interest, charges, expenses, fees, attorney fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document and (b) the obligations of the Borrower to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that any Lender, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Borrower.
Organization Documents
 means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Other Taxes
 means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document (but not Excluded Taxes).
Outstanding Amount
 means with respect to Loans on any date, the amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any Borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans occurring on such date.
Overnight Rate
 means, for any day, with respect to any amount, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Participant
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.06(d)
.
PBGC
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Pension Act
 means the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
Pension Funding Rules
 means the rules of the Code and ERISA regarding minimum required contributions (including any installment payment thereof) to Pension Plans and set forth in, with respect to plan years ending prior to the effective date of the Pension Act, Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA, each as in effect prior to the Pension Act and, thereafter, Section 412, 430, 431, 432 and 436 of the Code and Sections 302, 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA.
Pension Plan
 means any employee pension benefit plan (including a Multiple Employer Plan or a Multiemployer Plan) that is maintained or is contributed to by the Borrower and any ERISA Affiliate and is either covered by Title IV of ERISA or is subject to minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code.
Permitted Acquisition
 means any Acquisition (a) which has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Person to be acquired (or whose assets or property are to be acquired) in connection with such Acquisition, and (b) as to which both immediately prior to and after giving pro forma effect thereto no Default exists.
13
Person
 means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Plan
 means any employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA (including a Pension Plan), maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or any such Plan to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute on behalf of any of its employees.
Platform
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.02.
Public Filings
 means (i) the Borrowers Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 27, 2012 and (ii) the Current Reports of the Borrower on Form 8-K filed with the SEC after May 27, 2012 but before the Effective Date.
Public Lender
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.02
.
Register
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.06(c)
.
Related Parties
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Reportable Event
 means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Request for Credit Extension
 means with respect to a Committed Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice.
Required Lenders
 means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated due to the expiration of the Availability Period, pursuant to
Section 8.02
or otherwise, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings;
provided
that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Responsible Officer
 means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to
Article II
, any other officer of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2011, among the Borrower, Bank of America, as administrative agent, the syndication agents and documentation agents party thereto, a syndicate of lenders, and the other parties thereto.
S&P
 means Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto.
Same Day Funds
 means with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds.
14
SEC
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
STRH
 means SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., in its capacity as joint lead arranger.
Stockholders Equity
 means, at any time, the shareholders equity of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as set forth or reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Subsidiary
 of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a Subsidiary or to Subsidiaries shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Swap Contract
 means any agreement with respect to any rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing.
Syndication Agents
 means U.S. Bank and SunTrust Bank.
Taxes
 means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges in the nature of a tax imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Test Amount
 means, on any date of determination, an amount equal to 30% of the Consolidated Total Assets as of the last day of the fiscal year most recently ended prior to such date for which financial statements have been prepared and delivered to the Lenders.
Threshold Amount
 means $50,000,000.
Total Outstandings
 means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Type
 means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
United States
 and 
U.S.
 mean the United States of America.
U.S. Bank
 means U.S. Bank National Association, in its capacity as joint lead arranger.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 means as of any date a Subsidiary of a Person with respect to which all the outstanding equity securities entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors or managers (or other persons performing similar function) of such Subsidiary (other than directors qualifying shares or similar equity interests, shares or interests held by other Persons in connection with requirements under
15
liquor licensing laws or regulations and preferred equity interests in real estate investment trusts that are otherwise wholly-owned) are directly or indirectly beneficially owned by such Person on such date.
1.02
    
Other Interpretive Provisions
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)
    
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words 
include
, 
includes
 and 
including
 shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase 
without limitation
. The word will shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word 
shall
. Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Persons successors and assigns, (iii) the words 
herein
, 
hereof
 and 
hereunder
, and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such Law and any reference to any Law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words 
asset
 and 
property
 shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
(b)
    
In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word 
from
 means 
from and including
; the words to and until each mean 
to but excluding
; and the word 
through
 means 
to and including
.
(c)
    
Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
(d)
    
Each reference to basis points or bps shall be interpreted in accordance with the convention that 100 bps = 1.0%.
1.03
    
Accounting Terms
.
(a)
    
Generally
. All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP, as in effect from time to time, except as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
(b)
    
Changes in GAAP
. If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in
16
GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders);
provided
that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
1.04
    
Rounding
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05
    
Times of Day
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
ARTICLE II
THE COMMITMENTS AND CREDIT EXTENSIONS
2.01
    
Committed Loans
.
(a)
    
Committed Loans
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a 
Committed Loan
) to the Borrower in Dollars, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lenders Commitment;
provided
,
however
, that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Loans of any Lender, shall not exceed such Lenders Commitment and (iii) no more than three (3) Credit Extensions will be made during the Availability Period. Within the limits of each Lenders Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this
Section 2.01
and repay or prepay under
Section 2.05
. Amounts repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed. Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
(b)
    
Incremental Term Loan
. Subject to
Section 2.14
, on the effective date of the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement, each Incremental Term Loan Lender severally agrees to make its portion of a term loan (the 
Incremental Term Loan
) in a single advance to the Borrower in the amount of its respective Incremental Term Loan Commitment as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement;
provided
,
however
, that after giving effect to such advances, the Outstanding Amount of the Incremental Term Loan shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Incremental Term Loan Commitments of the Incremental Term Loan Lenders. Amounts repaid on the Incremental Term Loan may not be reborrowed. The Incremental Term Loan may consist of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans, or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request.
2.02
    
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
.
(a)
    
Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrowers irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each
17
telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this
Section 2.02(a)
must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in
Sections 2.03(c)
, each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted or continued, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Committed Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
(b)
    
Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans as described in the preceding subsection (a). In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in
Article IV
, the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting an account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
(c)
    
During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d)
    
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of Americas prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)
    
After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than six (6) Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
(f)
    
The failure of any Lender to make any Loan to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Loan on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Loan to be made by such
18
other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
2.03
    
Reserved
.
2.04
    
Reserved
.
2.05
    
Prepayments
. The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;
provided
that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lenders Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall irrevocably make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to
Section 3.05
.
Subject to
Section 2.16
, each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
2.06
    
Reserved.
2.07
    
Repayment of Loans
. The Borrower shall repay the outstanding principal amount of the Loan in the amount of $15,000,000 (as such installments may hereafter be adjusted as a result of prepayments made pursuant to
Section 2.05
) on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Closing Date (or the next following Business Day if such date is not a Business Day), unless accelerated sooner pursuant to
Section 8.02
. The Borrower shall repay the remaining amount of all Obligations in full on the Maturity Date, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to
Section 8.02
.
2.08
    
Interest
.
(a)
    
Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period
plus
an applicable margin equal to the Applicable Rate; and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate
plus
an applicable margin equal to the Applicable Rate.
(b)
    
(i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (after any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to at the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii)
    
If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default
19
Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii)
    
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)
    
Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
2.09
    
Fees
. The Borrower shall pay in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
2.10
    
Computation of Interest and Fees
.
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate) when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of Americas prime rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid;
provided
that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to
Section 2.12(a)
, bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.11
    
Evidence of Debt
.
(a)
    
The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lenders Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b)
    
Entries made in good faith by the Administrative Agent in the Register pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) above, and by each Lender in its accounts pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) above, shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, absent manifest error;
provided
that the failure of the Administrative Agent or such Lender to make any entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
20
2.12
    
Payments Generally; Administrative Agents Clawback
.
(a)
    
General
. All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agents Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lenders Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m., shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall become due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be;
provided
,
however
, that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Loans to be made in the next succeeding calendar month, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day
.
(b)
    
(i)
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lenders share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with
Section 2.02
(or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by
Section 2.02
) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lenders Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii)
    
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for
21
each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c)
    
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
. If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this
Article II
, and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in
Article IV
are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
(d)
    
Obligations of Lenders Several
. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans and the obligations of the Lenders to make payments pursuant to
Section 10.04(c)
are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan or to make any payment under
Section 10.04(c)
on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan or to make its payment under
Section 10.04(c)
.
(e)
    
Funding Source
. Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
2.13
    
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
. If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it resulting in such Lenders receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans and accrued interest thereon greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them,
provided
that:
(i)
    
if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)
    
the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
22
2.14
    
Increase in Commitments
. The Borrower may, at any time, upon prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, institute the Incremental Term Loan;
provided
that
(a)
    
the Borrower (in consultation with the Syndication Agents) shall obtain commitments for the amount of the increase from existing Lenders or other Persons acceptable to the Syndication Agents and the Administrative Agent, which Lenders shall join in this Agreement as Incremental Term Loan Lenders by executing an Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement or other agreement reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agents. Except as expressly set forth in this
Section 2.14
, the terms of any Incremental Term Loan shall be substantially the same as the Committed Loans made pursuant to
Section 2.01(a)
. No existing Lender shall be under any obligation to incur an Incremental Term Loan Commitment and any such decision shall be in such Lenders sole and absolute discretion;
(b)
    
any such institution of the Incremental Term Loan shall be in a minimum aggregate principal amount of $25,000,000 and integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess thereof;
(c)
    
no Default or Event of Default shall exist and be continuing at the time of such institution;
(d)
    
the Applicable Rate of each Incremental Term Loan shall be as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement,
provided
that the Applicable Rate for the Incremental Term Loan shall not be more than 25 basis points (0.25%) more than the Applicable Rate of any Loan;
(e)
    
the Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date shall be as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement,
provided
that such date shall not be earlier than the Maturity Date;
(f)
    
the scheduled principal amortization payments under the Incremental Term Loan shall be as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement;
provided
that the weighted average life of the Incremental Term Loan shall not be less than the weighted average life to maturity of the Loan in effect as of the Closing Date;
(g)
    
Schedule 2.01
shall be deemed revised to reflect the commitments and commitment percentages of the Incremental Term Loan Lenders as set forth in the Incremental Term Loan Joinder Agreement;
(h)
    
as a condition precedent to such institution of the Incremental Term Loan and the effectiveness of the Incremental Term Loan Lender Joinder Agreement, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agents a certificate dated as of the date of such institution and effectiveness (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by Borrower approving or consenting to the Incremental Term Loan, (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to the Incremental Term Loan, (x) the representations and warranties contained in
Article V
and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such increase, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this
Section 2.14
, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of
Section 5.05
shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of
Section 6.01
, (y) the Borrower is in compliance with the financial covenant set forth
23
in
Section 7.08
, and (z) no Default or Event of Default exists, and (iii) certifying and attaching the calculations used in the determination of subsection (ii)(y) and (z).
2.15
    
Reserved
.
2.16
    
Defaulting Lenders
.
(a)
    
Adjustments
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
(i)
    
Waivers and Amendment
. The Defaulting Lenders right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in
Section 10.01
.
(ii)
    
Reallocation of Payments
. Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amount received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to
Article VIII
or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to
Section 10.08
), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows:
first
, to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder;
second
, as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent;
third
, if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Loans under this Agreement;
fourth
, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement;
fifth
, so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and
sixth
, to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided
,
that
, if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Loans were made at a time when the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to the pay the Loans of all non-Defaulting Lenders on a
pro
rata
basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of that Defaulting Lender. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this
Section 2.16(a)(ii)
shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
(iii)
    
Replacement of Defaulting Lenders
. The Borrower may require any Defaulting Lender to assign its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to
Section 10.13
.
(b)
    
Defaulting Lender Cure
. If the Borrower and the Administrative Agent agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein, that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that
24
portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Committed Loans to be held on a
pro
rata
basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentages, whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender;
provided
,
that
, no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender;
provided
,
further
,
that
, except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender having been a Defaulting Lender.
ARTICLE III
TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY
3.01
    
Taxes
.
(a)
    
Payments Free of Taxes
. Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall, except as may be required by Law, be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes,
provided
that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable Law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Law.
(b)
    
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
. Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Law.
(c)
    
Indemnification by the Borrower
. (i) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Borrower shall also, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, for any amount which a Lender for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by clause (ii) of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(ii)
    
Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrower or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against such Borrower or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of
25
the failure by such Lender to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender to such Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e). Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii). The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
(d)
    
Evidence of Payments
. As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e)
    
Status of Lenders
. Any Lender that is a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code, and not an exempt recipient described in Section 6049(b)(4) of the Code, shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding, other withholding or information reporting requirements. Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the Law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable Law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is a resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender (or its owner) is legally entitled to do so), whichever (if any) of the following is applicable:
(i)
    
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii)
    
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii)
    
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender (and in the case of a Foreign Lender that is a disregarded entity or a foreign partnership or other pass-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, any owner of such Foreign Lender) is not (A) a bank within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a 10 percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of section 871 (h)(3) or 881 (c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a controlled foreign corporation described in section 881 (c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN,
26
(iv)
    
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY, together with forms and certificates described in clauses (i) through (iii) above as may be required, or
(v)
    
any other form prescribed by applicable Law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lenders status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, as the Administrative Agent or the Borrower shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Effective Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lenders entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lenders status for withholding tax purposes in such jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent upon the obsolescence, expiration or invalidity of any previously delivered form or certificate, deliver such forms and certificates as are described in this
Section 3.01(e)
, (ii) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction and at any other time such Lender determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered form or certificate to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent (or any other form of certification adopted by a taxing authority for such purpose), and (iii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that the Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, to the extent legally able to do so, the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Effective Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by the Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
If a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this paragraph, FATCA shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(f)
    
Treatment of Certain Refunds
. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in
27
its sole discretion, that it has received a refund or credit of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund or credit (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund or credit), net of all out- of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund or credit),
provided
that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority or loses the benefit of such credit, as applicable. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person. For the purposes of this clause (f), a credit shall be deemed received to the extent of the actual application of such credit in reduction of a tax obligation of the Administrative Agent or Lender using such credit.
3.02
    
Illegality
. If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans whose interest is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all such Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate) either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03
    
Inability to Determine Rates
. If the Required Lenders reasonably determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for Dollars for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan or in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (c) the
28
Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans in Dollars shall be suspended and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurodollar Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Committed Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.04
    
Increased Costs
.
(a)
    
Increased Costs Generally
. If any Change in Law shall:
(i)
    
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate); or
(ii)
    
impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan the interest on which is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will from time to time, within ten (10) Business Days after written demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender and showing in reasonable detail the basis for the calculation thereof, shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties hereto in the absence of manifest error.
(b)
    
Capital Requirements
. If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lenders holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders capital or on the capital of such Lenders holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lenders holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lenders policies and the policies of such Lenders holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lenders holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c)
    
Certificates for Reimbursement
. A certificate of a Lender setting forth in reasonable detail the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
29
(d)
    
Delay in Requests
. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders right to demand such compensation,
provided
that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
(e)
    
The foregoing provisions of this
Section 3.04
shall not apply in the case of any Change in Law in respect of Taxes which instead shall be governed by
Section 3.01
.
3.05
    
Compensation for Losses
. Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a)
    
any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)
    
any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c)
    
any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 10.13
;
including any foreign exchanges losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this
Section 3.05
, each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for Dollars for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
3.06
    
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
.
(a)
    
Designation of a Different Lending Office
. If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
Section 3.01
, or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to
Section 3.02
, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or Affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to
Section 3.01
or
3.04
, as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to
Section 3.02
, as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender in any material respect. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable
30
costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
(b)
    
Replacement of Lenders
. If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
Section 3.01
, the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with
Section 10.13
.
3.07
    
Survival
. All of the Borrowers obligations under this
Article III
shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
4.01
    
Conditions to Effectiveness
. This Agreement and the obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder shall become effective upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a)
    
Deliveries
. The Administrative Agents receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Effective Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Effective Date) and each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i)
    
executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
(ii)
    
an original Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note at least three (3) Business Days prior to the Effective Date;
(iii)
    
such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the identity and authority of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer on behalf of the Borrower in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
(iv)
    
such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed and that the Borrower is validly existing, and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization, including certified copies of the Borrowers Organization Documents and certificate of good standing from the Borrowers jurisdiction of organization;
(v)
    
an opinion of Hunton & Williams LLP addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender; and
(vi)
    
a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that (A) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in
Article V
are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Effective Date and (B) the condition specified in
Section 4.02(b)
has been satisfied.
(b)
    
[Reserved]
.
31
(c)
    
Lender Approval of Conditions
. Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of
Section 9.03
, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this
Section 4.01
, each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date hereof specifying its objection thereto.
(d)
    
Notice of Receipt
. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of its receipt of the documents required under
Section 4.01(a)
in satisfactory form and substance.
(e)
    
Fees
. Receipt by the Administrative Agent, Syndication Agents, and the Lenders of any fees required to be paid on or before the Effective Date or pursuant to the Fee Letters.
4.02
    
Conditions to Subsequent Credit Extensions
. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than any Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans), is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a)
    
The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in
Article V
(except for the representations and warranties contained in
Sections 5.05(c)
and
5.06
) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension and any Increase Effective Date, (i) except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date and (ii) except that for purposes of this
Section 4.02
, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of
Section 5.05
shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of
Section 6.01
.
(b)
    
No Default or Event of Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c)
    
The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in
Sections 4.02(a)
and
(b)
have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
ARTICLE V
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
5.01
    
Existence, Qualification and Power
. The Borrower (a) is a corporation duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, (b) has all requisite power and authority to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business as presently conducted and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is authorized and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or authorization; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so would
32
not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.02
    
Authorization; No Contravention
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document to which it is party, (a) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and (b) do not and will not: (i) violate the terms of any of such Persons Organization Documents; (ii) violate or result in a default or creation of any Lien under (A) any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or (B) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (iii) violate any Law, except, in each case referred to in clause (b)(ii) or (iii), to the extent such violation or default would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.03
    
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
. The Borrower has obtained each approval, consent, exemption or authorization, or made each filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.04
    
Binding Effect
. This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document to which the Borrower is a party, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document to which the Borrower is a party when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, subject to general principles of equity and to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other state or Federal Debtor Relief Laws or Laws affecting creditors rights generally from time to time in effect and any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
5.05
    
Financial Statements
.
(a)
    
The Audited Financial Statements furnished to the Administrative Agent and each Lender (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b)
    
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01(b)
, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter covered thereby furnished to the Administrative Agent and each Lender (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
(c)
    
Since May 27, 2012, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except as disclosed in the Public Filings.
5.06
    
Litigation
. Except for the matters disclosed in the Public Filings, there are (a) no actions,
33
suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened in writing, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or against any of their respective properties that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and (b) no orders, decrees, judgments, rulings, injunctions, writs, temporary restraining orders or other orders of any nature issued by any court or Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.07
    
No Default
. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
5.08
    
Environmental Compliance
. The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary conducts in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing (a) Environmental Laws and (b) claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that the effect of such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09
    
Taxes
. The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary has timely filed (taking into account all properly granted extensions) all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and has timely paid (taking into account all properly granted extensions) all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon it or its properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, whether or not shown on any tax return, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Material Subsidiary is party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.10
    
ERISA Compliance
.
(a)
    
Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws, (ii) each Pension Plan that is intended to be a qualified plan under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the form of such Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and the trust related thereto has been determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of the Code or an application for such a letter is either currently being processed by the IRS or will be timely submitted to the IRS and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred that would prevent, or cause the loss of, such tax-qualified status and (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or Section 4212(c) of ERISA.
(b)
    
There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)
    
No ERISA Event has occurred and the Borrower is not aware of any fact, event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to constitute or result in an ERISA Event with respect to any Pension Plan; (ii) the Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate has met all applicable requirements under the Pension Funding Rules in respect of each Pension Plan, and no waiver of the minimum funding standards under the Pension Funding Rules has been applied for or obtained.
34
5.11
    
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
.
(a)
    
The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
(b)
    
The Borrower is not required to be registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
5.12
    
Disclosure
. Taken as a whole, the written reports, financial statements, certificates and other written information furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or delivered hereunder or under any Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) do not, at the time furnished, contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not materially misleading;
provided
that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time made.
5.13
    
Compliance with Laws
. The Borrower and each Material Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
ARTICLE VI
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation (other than contingent indemnification obligations) hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied:
6.01
    
Financial Statements
. The Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent (for further distribution to each Lender):
(a)
    
as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders equity and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing, which report and opinion shall not be subject to any going concern or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
(b)
    
as soon as available, but in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of the Borrower in each fiscal year, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of each such fiscal quarter, and the related
35
consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders equity and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrowers fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail certified by a Responsible Officer as fairly presenting in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to
Section 6.02(b)
, the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
6.02
    
Certificates; Other Information
. The Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(a)
    
concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in
Sections 6.01(a)
and (b), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer;
(b)
    
promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements filed by the Borrower with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01(a)
or
(b)
or
Section 6.02(b)
(to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which such documents are posted on the Borrowers website on the Internet at the website address listed on
Schedule 10.02
(which website includes an option to subscribe to a free service alerting subscribers by e-mail of new SEC filings), at
www.sec.gov
, or at such other Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent);
provided
that, with respect to documents required to be delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01(a)
or
(b)
: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon its request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (i.e., soft copies) of such documents. The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery of or to maintain paper copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery by a Lender, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, 
Borrower Materials
) by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the 
Platform
) and (b) certain of the Lenders (each a 
Public Lender
) may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective
36
securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (i) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked PUBLIC which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word PUBLIC shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (ii) by marking Borrower Materials PUBLIC, the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (
provided
,
however
, that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in
Section 10.07)
; (iii) all Borrower Materials marked PUBLIC are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated Public Investor, and (iv) the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked PUBLIC as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated Public Investor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials PUBLIC.
6.03
    
Notices
.
(a)
    
Promptly (and in any event, within five (5) Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge thereof) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the occurrence of any Default; and
(b)
    
Promptly (and in any event, within five (5) Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge thereof) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender of any announcement by Moodys, S&P or Fitch of any change in a Debt Rating.
Each notice pursuant to
Section 6.03(a)
shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.
6.04
    
Payment of Tax Obligations
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable, all its material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Loan Party or such Subsidiary.
6.05
    
Preservation of Existence, Etc
. The Borrower shall (a) preserve and maintain its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by
Section 7.04
or
7.05
; and (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses, approvals and franchises in each case which are necessary in the conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation or non-renewal of which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06
    
Maintenance of Properties
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Material Subsidiary to, (a) maintain, preserve and protect all of its properties and equipment necessary and material to the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.07
    
Maintenance of Insurance
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Material Subsidiary to, maintain insurance with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, or systems of self-
37
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts as are customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar businesses.
6.08
    
Compliance with Laws
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.09
    
Books and Records
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Material Subsidiary to, maintain proper books of record and account in conformity with GAAP.
6.10
    
Inspection Rights
. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its principal officers, and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Borrower and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably requested, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower, but not more frequently than once per 12-month period;
provided
,
however
, that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower as often as may be reasonably requested.
6.11
    
Use of Proceeds; Margin Stock
.
(a)
    
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for (i) the refinancing of certain existing indebtedness, (ii) Permitted Acquisitions and related fees and expenses and (iii) general corporate purposes not in violation of any Law or of any Loan Document.
(b)
    
The Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, in each case, in a manner which violates the Margin Regulations.
(c)
    
Immediately after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of any Credit Extension that constitutes a purpose credit as defined under Regulation U issued by the FRB, not more than 25% (or such greater or lesser percentage as is provided in the exclusions from the definition of Indirectly secured contained in Regulation U as in effect at the time of the making of such Credit Extension) of the value of the assets of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis will be Margin Stock.
ARTICLE VII
NEGATIVE COVENANTS
The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation (other than contingent indemnification obligations) hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied:
7.01
    
Liens
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
38
(a)
    
Liens existing on the date hereof and to the extent any such Liens secure Indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $1,000,000 individually, such Liens are listed on
Schedule 7.01
;
(b)
    
Liens for taxes, assessments and other governmental charges or levies not yet due which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty, or to the extent non-payment thereof is permitted under
Section 6.04
;
(c)
    
carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens, processors landlords or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations which are not delinquent by more than 60 days or to the extent non-payment thereof is permitted under
Section 6.04
or which have been bonded for the full amount;
(d)
    
pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(e)
    
deposits to secure the performance of bids, tenders, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(f)
    
zoning restrictions, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(g)
    
Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under
Section 8.01(h)
;
(h)
    
any interest or title of a lessor under any lease;
(i)
    
licenses, leases or subleases granted to other Persons not interfering in any material respect with the business of the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries;
(j)
    
Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to bankers liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution;
provided
that (A) such deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board and (B) such deposit account is not intended by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to provide collateral for debt for borrowed money owed to the depository institution;
(k)
    
purchase money Liens and Liens securing Capital Leases;
provided
that the Lien attaches only to the asset being purchased or leased and does not exceed 100% of the purchase price or fair market value of such asset;
(l)
    
Liens on assets of Persons which become Subsidiaries after the date of this Agreement;
provided
that such Liens existed at the time of such Persons became Subsidiaries and were not created in anticipation thereof;
39
(m)
    
extensions, renewals or replacements, in whole or in part, of any Liens referred to in the foregoing clauses (a), (k) and (l);
provided
that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby and not otherwise authorized by this
Section 7.01
shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness, plus any premium or fee payable in connection with any such extension, renewal or replacement, so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement;
(n)
    
Liens, if any, in favor of the Administrative Agent on Cash Collateral (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) delivered pursuant to
Section 2.15(a)
under the Revolving Credit Agreement; and
(o)
    
other Liens on assets or other properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
provided
that the sum of (i) the aggregate Indebtedness secured by such other Liens (exclusive of Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by clauses (a) through (n) of this
Section 7.01
) plus, without duplication, (ii) the aggregate amount of Indebtedness permitted under
Section 7.03(h)
shall not exceed an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at the time such Indebtedness is incurred.
7.02
    
Acquisitions
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to make any Acquisitions except Permitted Acquisitions.
7.03
    
Subsidiary Indebtedness
.
The Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
(a)
    
Indebtedness existing on the date hereof;
(b)
    
Indebtedness of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary;
(c)
    
any Indebtedness incurred to refinance any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary outstanding on the Effective Date to the extent the amount of Indebtedness so incurred is not in excess of the amount of Indebtedness refinanced, plus any interest, fees and premiums incurred in connection therewith;
(d)
    
[Intentionally omitted.];
(e)
    
Guarantees by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary to the extent such Indebtedness is permitted under this Agreement;
(f)
    
reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business;
(g)
    
Indebtedness in respect of Capital Leases; and
(h)
    
other Indebtedness incurred after the Effective Date in an aggregate amount not to exceed 10% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at the time such Indebtedness is incurred.
7.04
    
Fundamental Changes
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Material Subsidiary to, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
40
(a)
    
any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with (i) the Borrower,
provided
that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries,
provided
that when any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary is merging with another Subsidiary, the Wholly-Owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
(b)
    
the Borrower or any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) (i) to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary;
provided
that if the transferor in such a transaction is the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, then the transferee must either be the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, or (ii) pursuant to a Disposition permitted under
Section 7.05
;
(c)
    
the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any Person so long as (i) the Borrower is the surviving Person or (ii) (A) the surviving Person expressly assumes by a duly executed amendment to this Agreement all of the Borrowers obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and (B) such transfer of the Borrowers rights and obligations hereunder is approved by the Administrative Agent and each Lender in accordance with the terms of
Section 10.06(a)
; and
(d)
    
any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any Person so long as such Subsidiary is the surviving Person.
7.05
    
Dispositions
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
(a)
    
Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
(b)
    
Dispositions of equipment and inventory in the ordinary course of business;
(c)
    
Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property within 90 days of such Disposition;
(d)
    
Dispositions permitted pursuant to
Section 7.04
;
(e)
    
Dispositions by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary; and
(f)
    
other Dispositions made after the Effective Date in an amount that does not exceed the Test Amount.
7.06
    
Transactions with Affiliates
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Borrower, except (a) as expressly permitted by this Agreement, (b) in connection with the repurchase by the Borrower of common stock of the Borrower, (c) in connection with any dividends or distributions with respect to any Equity Interests of the Borrower, (d) in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to the reasonable conduct of business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary or (e) on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arms length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate;
provided
that the foregoing restriction shall not apply
41
to transactions between or among the Borrower and any of its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries or between or among any Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries.
7.07
    
Burdensome Agreements
. The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Material Subsidiary to, enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that limits the ability of any Material Subsidiary to pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock to the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary owning such capital stock or otherwise transfer property to the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this
Section 7.07
shall prohibit (a) any limitations or restrictions contained in Contractual Obligations existing on the Effective Date, (b) limitations or restrictions with respect to a Person acquired by the Borrower or a Material Subsidiary and existing at the time of such acquisition, which limitations or restrictions are not applicable to any other Person, (c) customary limitations or restrictions in any acquisition agreement with respect to a Person subject to any disposition by the Borrower or a Material Subsidiary, which limitations or restrictions are not applicable to any other Person, and (d) limitations or restrictions consisting of customary net worth, leverage and other financial covenants, customary covenants regarding the merger or sale of assets of a Material Subsidiary, customary restrictions on transactions with Affiliates, and customary subordination provisions with respect to intercompany debt, in each case contained in, or required by, any Contractual Obligation governing Indebtedness of a Subsidiary permitted under
Section 7.03
; provided that the limitations or restrictions contained in any extensions, refinancings, renewals or replacements of the Contractual Obligations referred to in clauses (a) and (b) are no less favorable in any material respect to the Lenders than those that are being extended, refinanced, renewed or replaced.
7.08
    
Consolidated Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio
. The Borrower will not permit the Consolidated Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be greater than 0.75 to 1.00.
ARTICLE VIII
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
8.01
    
Events of Default
. Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)
    
Non-Payment
. The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
(b)
    
Specific Covenants
. The Borrower fails to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of
Section 6.05
(with respect to existence of the Borrower only),
6.11
or
Article VII
or (ii) any term, covenant or agreement contained in
Sections 6.01
,
6.02
or
6.03(a)
and such failure continues for ten or more days; or
(c)
    
Other Defaults
. The Borrower fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in this Agreement and such failure continues for 30 or more days after delivery of notice to a Responsible Officer of such failure from the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
(d)
    
Representations and Warranties
. Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, other than any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made in
Section 5.10
, shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
42
(e)
    
Cross-Default
. The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary (i) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, or (ii) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any Material Indebtedness, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause or to permit the holder or holders of such Material Indebtedness to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Material Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity;
provided
,
however
, that an Event of Default under this
Section 8.01(e)
caused by the occurrence of a default with respect to such Material Indebtedness shall be cured for purposes of this Agreement (i) upon the party asserting such default waiving such default, (ii) upon the Borrower or such Subsidiary curing such default prior to such party exercising any remedies with respect thereto if, at the time of such waiver or such cure the Administrative Agent has not exercised any rights or remedies with respect to an Event of Default under this
Section 8.01(e)
or (iii) upon the Borrowers or such Material Subsidiarys otherwise making adequate provision for the payment of such Material Indebtedness in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders prior to such party exercising any remedies with respect thereto if, at the time of such adequate provision the Administrative Agent has not exercised any rights or remedies with respect to an Event of Default under this
Section 8.01(e)
; or
(f)
    
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
(g)
    
Inability to Pay Indebtedness; Attachment
. (i) The Borrower or any Material Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
(h)
    
Judgments
. There is entered against the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third- party insurance) and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 60 days (i) after the entry of any such judgment or order, or (ii) after any appeal in good faith of such judgment or order so long as during such appeal any execution of such judgment or order is stayed; or
(i)
    
ERISA
. (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
(j)
    
Change of Control
. There occurs any Change of Control.
43
8.02
    
Remedies Upon Event of Default
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)
    
declare the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such Commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b)
    
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
(c)
    
exercise on behalf of itself, and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
provided
,
however
, that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender. The Administrative Agent shall use reasonable efforts to give the Borrower prompt written notice of any exercise of the remedies set forth in clauses (a) and (b) of
Section 8.02
, but the failure to deliver such notice shall not impair the availability, effectiveness or validity of such remedy.
8.03
    
Application of Funds
. After the exercise of remedies provided for in
Section 8.02
(or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to
Section 8.02)
, any amounts received by the Administrative Agent on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
First
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under
Article III
) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders as required by
Section 10.04
and amounts payable under
Article III
), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Second
payable to them;
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Third
payable to them;
Fourth
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Fourth
held by them; and
Last
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations) have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
ARTICLE IX
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
9.01
    
Appointment and Authority
. Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents
44
and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.02
    
Rights as a Lender
. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.03
    
Exculpatory Provisions
. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)
    
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)
    
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents),
provided
that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable Law; and
(c)
    
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in
Sections 10.01
and
8.02
) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, or a Lender.
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in
Article IV
or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the
45
Administrative Agent.
9.04
    
Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.05
    
Delegation of Duties
. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.06
    
Resignation of Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States, with the consent of the Borrower (unless a Default has occurred and is then existing, in which case the consent of the Borrower shall not be required), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above;
provided
that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agents resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and
Section 10.04
shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect
46
of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.07
    
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.08
    
No Other Duties, Etc
. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Book Managers, Joint Lead Arrangers, Co-Documentation Agents, or Syndication Agents, if any, listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.09
    
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
. In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise.
(a)
    
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under
Sections 2.09
and
10.04
) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
(b)
    
to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under
Sections 2.09
and
10.04
.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS
47
10.01
    
Amendments, Etc
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given;
provided
,
however
, that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
(a)
    
extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to
Section 8.02
) without the written consent of such Lender;
(b)
    
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(c)
    
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder without the written consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby;
provided
,
however
, that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of Default Rate or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate.
(d)
    
change
Section 2.13
or
Section 8.03
in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
(e)
    
change any provision of this Section or the definition of Required Lenders or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and,
provided
further
, that (i) no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender, (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (iii) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any bankruptcy reorganization plan that affects the Loans, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code of the United States supersedes the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (iv) the Required Lenders shall determine whether or not to allow the Borrower to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding and such determination shall be binding on all of the Lenders.
10.02
    
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communications
.
(a)
    
Notices Generally
. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable
48
telephone number, as follows:
(i)
    
if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, or the Syndication Agents, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on
Schedule 10.02
; and
(ii)
    
if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b)
    
Electronic Communications
. Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent,
provided
that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to
Article II
if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it,
provided
that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the senders receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the return receipt requested function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement),
provided
that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
(c)
    
The Platform
. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED AS IS AND AS AVAILABLE. THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the 
Agent Parties
) have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agents transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from
49
the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party;
provided
,
however
, that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
(d)
    
Change of Address, Etc.
Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the Private Side Information or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lenders compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the Public Side Information portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(e)
    
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
10.03
    
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
. No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by Law.
10.04
    
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
.
(a)
    
Costs and Expenses
. The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any one counsel for the Administrative Agent, local counsel and one additional counsel for each Lender to the extent of any conflict of interest), in connection with the
50
enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b)
    
Indemnification by the Borrower
. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an 
Indemnitee
) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of not more than one counsel in any jurisdiction; provided, that, in the case of a conflict of interest where the Indemnitee affected by such conflict informs the Borrower of such conflict and thereafter retains its own counsel, of another counsel in each applicable jurisdiction for such affected Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto;
provided
that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of such Indemnitee.
(c)
    
Reimbursement by Lenders
. To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lenders Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount;
provided
that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of
Section 2.12(d)
.
(d)
    
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
51
(e)
    
Survival
. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
10.05
    
Payments Set Aside
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.06
    
Successors and Assigns
.
(a)
    
Successors and Assigns Generally
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this
Section 10.06
, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this
Section 10.06
, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this
Section 10.06
and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b)
    
Assignments by Lenders
. Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it);
provided
that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
(i)
    
Minimum Amounts
.
(A)
    
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)
    
in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal
52
outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if Trade Date is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default under
Section 8.01(a)
,
(b)
(with respect to
Section 7.08
only),
(f)
or
(g)
has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
provided
,
however
, that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
(ii)
    
Proportionate Amounts
. Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis;
(iii)
    
Required Consents
. No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
(A)
    
the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default under
Section 8.01(a)
,
(b)
(with respect to
Section 7.08
only),
(f)
or
(g)
has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(B)
    
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
(iv)
    
Assignment and Assumption
. The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver (A) notice of such Assignment promptly to the Syndication Agents and (B) an Assignment and Assumption to the Administrative Agent, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500;
provided
,
however
, that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
(v)
    
No Assignment to Certain Persons
. No such assignment shall be made (A) to the Borrower or any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries, or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B) or (C) to a natural person.
(vi)
    
Certain Additional Payments
. In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of
53
participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable Law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
(vii)
    
Assignee is not a Competitor
. Each assignee represents and warrants to the Borrower that such assignee is not a Competitor.
The assignee shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) all applicable tax forms as provided in
Section 3.01(e)
. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this
Section 10.06
, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of
Sections 3.01
,
3.04
,
3.05
and
10.04
with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this
Section 10.06
.
(c)
    
Register
. The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agents Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the 
Register
). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d)
    
Participations
. Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person, a Defaulting Lender, the Borrower, any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries or any Competitor
(each, a 
Participant
) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it);
provided
that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other
54
parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement;
provided
that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to
Section 10.01
that directly and adversely affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of
Sections 3.01
,
3.04
and
3.05
to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this
Section 10.06
. To the extent permitted by Law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of
Section 10.08
as though it were a Lender;
provided
such Participant agrees to be subject to
Section 2.13
as though it were a Lender.
(e)
    
Limitations upon Participant Rights
. A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under
Section 3.01
or
3.04
than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers prior written consent. A Participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of
Section 3.01
unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant (in the case of a Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender) and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply, and does so comply, with
Section 3.01(e)
as though it were a Lender (it being agreed that any requirement in
Section 3.01(e)
that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent request a form, certificate or other documentation shall be treated for this purpose as having been satisfied).
(f)
    
Certain Pledges
. Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank;
provided
that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
(g)
    
Electronic Execution of Assignments
. The words 
execution
, 
signed
, 
signature
, and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable Law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state Laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
10.07
    
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable Law or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to a written agreement containing
55
provisions substantially the same as those of this
Section 10.07
, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to
Section 2.14(c)
or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this
Section 10.07
or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
For purposes of this Section, 
Information
 means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
provided
that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
10.08
    
Right of Setoff
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, to setoff and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness;
provided
, that, in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.16
and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application,
provided
that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.09
    
Interest Rate Limitation
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the 
Maximum Rate
). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest
56
shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.10
    
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in
Section 4.01
, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.11
    
Survival of Representations and Warranties
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
10.12
    
Severability
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this
Section 10.12
, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
10.13
    
Replacement of Lenders
. If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
Section 3.01
, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by,
Section 10.06
), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment),
provided
that
:
(a)
    
the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in
Section 10.06(b)
;
57
(b)
    
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under
Section 3.05
) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
(c)
    
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under
Section 3.04
or payments required to be made pursuant to
Section 3.01
, such assignment is reasonably expected to result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
(d)
    
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14
    
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
.
(a)
    
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
(b)
    
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ANY PARTY HERETO MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c)
    
WAIVER OF VENUE
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
58
(d)
    
SERVICE OF PROCESS
. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN
SECTION 10.02
. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
10.15
    
Waiver of Jury Trial
.
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.16
    
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
. In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, are arms-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Joint Lead Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Joint Lead Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
10.17
    
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
.
Each Lender that is subject to hereto and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with such Act.
[Remainder of page intentionally left blank]
59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC., a Florida corporation
By:
/s/ William R. White, III
Name: William R. White, III
Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer
60
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent
By:
/s/ Erik M. Truette
Name: Erik M. Truette
Title: Assistant Vice President
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ Steven L. Sawyer
Name: Steven L. Sawyer
Title: Vice President
SUNTRUST BANK,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ J. Matthew Rowand
Name: J. Matthew Rowand
Title: Vice President
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ John H. Schmidt
Name: John H. Schmidt
Title: Director
FIFTH THIRD BANK,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ John A. Marian
Name: John A. Marian
Title: Vice President
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ Ashley Walsh
Name: Ashley Walsh
Title: Vice President
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, (USA)
as a Lender
By:
/s/ Tenya Mitsuboshi
Name: Tenya Mitsuboshi
Title: Deputy General Manager
DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH,
as a Lender
By:
/s/ Ming K. Chu
Name: Ming K. Chu
Title: Vice President
By:
/s/ Virginia Cosenza
Name: Virginia Cosenza
Title: Vice President
SCHEDULE 2.01
SCHEDULE 7.01
EXISTING MATERIAL LIENS
Darden Realty, Inc. holds the following promissory notes aggregating $700,000,000:
5-26-08) due 10-16-22.
 
GMRI Realty, Inc. holds the following promissory note:
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF COMMITTED LOAN NOTICE
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2012 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Darden Restaurants, Inc. a Florida corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
A Borrowing of Committed Loans        A conversion or continuation of Loans
1.    On _______________________ (a Business Day).
2.    In the amount of _________.
3.    Comprised of _______________________.
[Type of Committed Loan requested]
4.    For Eurodollar Rate Loans: with an Interest Period of _________ month[s].
The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the proviso to the first sentence of
Section 2.01
of the Agreement.
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.,
a Florida corporation
By:
                        
Name:
                        
Title:
                        
EXHIBIT B
FORM OF INCREMENTAL TERM LOAN LENDER JOINDER AGREEMENT
THIS INCREMENTAL TERM LOAN LENDER JOINDER AGREEMENT
dated as of August 22, 2012 (this 
Agreement
) is by and among each of the Persons identified as Incremental Term Loan Lenders on the signature pages hereto (each, an 
Incremental Term Loan Lender
), Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (
Borrower
), and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings provided in the Credit Agreement.
W I T N E S S E T H
WHEREAS
, pursuant to that certain Term Loan Agreement dated as of August 22, 2012 (as amended, modified, supplemented, increased or extended from time to time, the 
Credit Agreement
) among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a term loan
facility;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to
Section 2.14
of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower has requested that each Incremental Term Loan Lender provide a portion of the Incremental Term Loan under the Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS
, each Incremental Term Loan Lender has agreed to provide a portion of the Incremental Term Loan on the terms and conditions set forth herein and to become an Incremental Term Loan Lender under the Credit Agreement in connection therewith;
NOW, THEREFORE
, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.    Each Incremental Term Loan Lender severally agrees to make its portion of the Incremental Term Loan in a single advance to the Borrower on the date hereof in the amount of its respective Incremental Term Loan Commitment;
provided
that, after giving effect to such advances, the Outstanding Amount of the Incremental Term Loan shall not exceed One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000). The Incremental Term Loan Commitment and Applicable Percentage for each of the Incremental Term Loan Lenders shall be as set forth on
Schedule 2.01
attached hereto. The existing
Schedule 2.01
to the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be amended to include the information set forth on
Schedule 2.01
attached hereto.
2.    The Applicable Rate with respect to the Incremental Term Loan shall be (a) [_______%], with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (b) [_______%], with respect to Base Rate Loans.
3.    The Incremental Term Loan Maturity Date shall be [            ].
4.    The Borrower shall repay to the Incremental Term Loan Lenders the principal amount of the Incremental Term Loan in annual installments on the dates set forth below as follows:
72
5.    Each Incremental Term Loan Lender (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Incremental Term Loan Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an Eligible Assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the date hereof, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as an Incremental Term Loan Lender thereunder and shall have the obligations of an Incremental Term Loan Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01
thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Incremental Term Loan Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Incremental Term Loan Lender.
6.    Each of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower agrees that, as of the date hereof, each Incremental Term Loan Lender shall (a) be a party to the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) be an Incremental Term Loan Lender for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents and (c) have the rights and obligations of an Incremental Term Loan Lender under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
7.    The address of each Incremental Term Loan Lender for purposes of all notices and other communications is as set forth on the Administrative Questionnaire delivered by such Incremental Term Loan Lender to the Administrative Agent.
8.    This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the various parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one contract. Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
9.    THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
73
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the date first above written.
INCREMENTAL TERM
LOAN LENDERS
:                            
By:
                    
        
Name:
                    
Title:
                    
BORROWER
:                    DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
a Florida corporation
By:
                    
    
Name:
                    
Title:
                    
Accepted and Agreed
:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
                
By:
                    
        
Name:
                    
Title:
                    
74
EXHIBIT C
FORM OF NOTE
August 22, 2012
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the 
Borrower
), hereby promises to pay to _____________ or registered assigns (the 
Lender
), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2012 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agents Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note may become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount, and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.,
a Florida corporation
By:
                        
Name:
                        
Title:
                        
LOANS AND PAYMENTS WITH RESPECT THERETO
EXHIBIT D
FORM OF COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
Financial Statement Date: August 22, 2012,
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of August 22, 2012 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the __________ of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal year-end financial statements]
[1.    The Borrower has delivered the year-end audited financial statements required by
Section 6.01(a)
of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.]
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal quarter-end financial statements]
[1.    The Borrower has delivered the unaudited financial statements required by
Section 6.01(b)
of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.]
2.    The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a reasonably detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by such financial statements.
3.    To the best knowledge of the undersigned
[select one:]
[no Default has occurred and is continuing.] or [the following is a list of each Default that has occurred and is continuing and its nature and status:]
4.    The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on
Schedule 1
attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of August 22, 2012.
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.,
a Florida corporation
By:
                        
Name:
                        
Title:
                        
For the Quarter/Year ended ________________________ (
Statement Date
)
SCHEDULE 1
to the Compliance Certificate ($ in 000s)
I.    
Section 7.08
 Consolidated Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio.
A.    Consolidated Indebtedness as of the Statement Date:     $
        
Date                            $
        
C.    Consolidated Operating Lease Obligations as of the
Statement Date                        $
        
D.    Consolidated Total Debt as of the Statement Date
(Line A + Line B + (Line C x 6.25))            $
        
E.    Stockholders Equity as of the Statement Date:        $
        
F.    Consolidated Total Debt to Capitalization Ratio
(Line D / (Line D + Line E)):                ____ to 1.00
Maximum permitted: 0.75 to 1.00
EXHIBIT E
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
This Assignment and Assumption (this 
Assignment and Assumption
) is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the] [each] Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] 
Assignor
) and [the][each] Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] 
Assignee
). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors] [the Assignees] hereunder are several and not joint.] Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the 
Credit Agreement
), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
For an agreed consideration, [the] [each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor] [the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignors] [the respective Assignors] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender] [their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor] [the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)] [the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the] [any] Assignor to [the] [any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] 
Assigned Interest
). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the] [any] Assignor.
1.    
Assignor[s]
:    
                    
2.    
Assignee[s]
:    
                    
                
                    
[for each Assignee, indicate [Affiliate][Approved Fund] of [
identify Lender
]]
3.    
Borrower
:     Darden Restaurants, Inc., a Florida corporation
6.    
Assigned Interest[s]
:
[7.    
Trade Date:
    ]
Effective Date: ____________________, 20__ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
ASSIGNOR
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
By:
                    
Title:
ASSIGNEE
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
By:
                    
Title:
[Consented to and] Accepted:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
By:
                    
Title:
[Consented to:]
Darden Restaurants, Inc.,
as Borrower
By:
                    
Title:
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1.    Representations and Warranties.
1.1.    
Assignor
. [The] [Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][[the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
1.2.    
Assignee
. [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it has reviewed the list(s) of Competitors posted to the Platform and it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
,
(v)
and
(vii)
of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the] [the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by [the] [such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01
thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the] [such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the] [such] Assigned Interest, (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee and (viii) (A) the source of any funds it is using to acquire the assigning Lenders interest or to fund any Credit Extension is not and will not be plan assets as defined under the regulations of the Department of Labor of any Plan subject to Title I of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code or (B) the assignment or Credit Extension is not and will not be a non-exempt prohibited transaction as defined in Section 406 of ERISA; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, [the] [any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
2.    
Payments
. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all
payments in respect of [the] [each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the] [the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the] [the relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
3.    
General Provisions
. This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.


