FILE:DRI/DRI-8K-20121220072915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report: December 20, 2012
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Commission File Number: 1-13666
 
1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(407) 245-4000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the Company) issued a news release dated December 20, 2012, entitled Darden Restaurants Reports Second Quarter Diluted Net Earnings Per Share of 26 Cents; Declares A Quarterly Dividend of 50 Cents Per Share, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Item 2.02 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 20, 2012
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

Exhibit 99
Red Lobster Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse The Capital Grille
Bahama Breeze Seasons 52 Eddie V's Yard House
www.darden.com
DARDEN RESTAURANTS REPORTS SECOND QUARTER DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE OF 26 CENTS; DECLARES A QUARTERLY DIVIDEND OF 50 CENTS PER SHARE
ORLANDO, FL, December 20 - Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI) today reported diluted net earnings per share and sales for the second quarter ended November 25, 2012.
 
Highlights for the quarter include the following:
1
Operating Highlights
 
OLIVE GARDEN'S
second quarter sales of $849 million were 1.5% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 46 net new restaurants offset by a 3.2% decrease in U.S. same-restaurant sales. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses offset an increase in restaurant expenses and depreciation expense, which resulted in an increase for the quarter in operating profit, but a decrease in operating profit as a percentage of sales.
 
RED LOBSTER'S
second quarter sales of $590 million were 2.1% lower than the prior year as a result of a U.S. same-restaurant sales decrease of 2.7% that was offset somewhat by revenue from five net new restaurants. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, lower food and beverage expenses and restaurant labor expenses were more than offset by an increase in restaurant expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation expense, which resulted in a decrease for the quarter in both operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales.
 
LONGHORN STEAKHOUSE'S
second quarter sales of $275 million were 7.8% higher than the prior year, driven by revenue from 32 net new restaurants offset by a U.S. same-restaurant sales decrease of 0.8%. For the quarter, on a percentage of sales basis, higher food and beverage expenses, restaurant labor expenses, restaurant expenses and depreciation expense resulted in a decline for the quarter in both operating profit and operating profit as a percentage of sales.
 
THE SPECIALTY RESTAURANT GROUP'S
second quarter sales of $241 million were 76.4% higher than the prior year, driven by the addition of the 40 Yard House restaurants purchased on August 29, 2012 plus one new Yard House restaurant that opened in October 2012; same-restaurant sales increases of 0.8% at The Capital Grille and 1.9% at Bahama Breeze offset by a same-restaurant sales decline of -1.0% at Seasons 52; three net new restaurants at The Capital Grille, five net new restaurants at Bahama Breeze and four net new restaurants at Seasons 52; and the addition of the 11 Eddie V's restaurants purchased on November 14, 2011.
2
Fiscal 2013
September
,
October
and
November
U.S. Same-Restaurant Sales Results
Darden reported U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal months of
September
,
October
and
November
as follows:
* Note: Same-restaurant sales results were adversely affected by approximately 60 and 20 basis points in November and the full second quarter, respectively, due to Hurricane Sandy which caused approximately 475 days of restaurant closures.
Other Actions
Dardens Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of
50 cents
per share on the Companys outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on
February 1, 2013
to shareholders of record at the close of business on
January 10, 2013
.
Fiscal 2013 Financial Outlook
Darden affirmed its financial outlook for fiscal 2013. The Company anticipates total sales growth of between +7.5% and +8.5% for the year based upon combined U.S. same-restaurant sales of approximately -1.0% to flat for Red Lobster, Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse, incremental sales starting in fiscal September from the acquisition of Yard House and the opening of approximately 100 net new restaurants in fiscal 2013, not including the initial 40 Yard House restaurants operating at the close of the acquisition. And, the Company expects diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.29 to $3.49 for fiscal 2013, which includes approximately 8 to 10 cents of transaction and closing costs associated with the purchase of Yard House USA, Inc.
3
Darden Restaurants, Inc., (NYSE: DRI), the world's largest full-service restaurant company, owns and operates more than 2,000 restaurants that generate $8.0 billion in annual sales. Headquartered in Orlando, Florida and employing more than 185,000 people, Darden is recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. In 2012, Darden was named to the FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For list for the second year in a row. Our restaurant brands - Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52, Eddie V's and Yard House - reflect the rich diversity of those who dine with us. Our brands are built on deep insights into what our guests want. For more information, please visit www.darden.com.
Forward-looking statements in this news release regarding our expected earnings per share and U.S. same-restaurant sales for the fiscal year, new restaurant growth and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements concerning our future economic performance, plans or objectives, are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.  By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). These risks and uncertainties include food safety and food-borne illness concerns, litigation, unfavorable publicity, risks relating to public policy changes and federal, state and local regulation of our business including health care reform, labor and insurance costs, technology failures, failure to execute a business continuity plan following a disaster, health concerns including virus outbreaks, intense competition, failure to drive sales growth, failure to successfully integrate the Yard House business and the additional indebtedness incurred to finance the Yard House acquisition, our plans to expand our newer brands like Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V's, a lack of suitable new restaurant locations, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close or remodel restaurants, a failure to execute innovative marketing tactics and increased advertising and marketing costs, a failure to develop and recruit effective leaders, a failure to address cost pressures, shortages or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, volatility in the market value of derivatives, economic factors specific to the restaurant industry and general macroeconomic factors including unemployment and interest rates, disruptions in the financial markets, risks of doing business with franchisees and vendors in foreign markets, failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property,  a possible impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, a failure of our internal controls over financial reporting, or changes in accounting standards, and other factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
4
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
NUMBER OF COMPANY-OWNED RESTAURANTS
5
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
6
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
 
7
DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
8


