Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we use significant judgment in accounting for: goodwill and goodwill impairment impairment of long lived assets excluding goodwill reclamation costs pension and other postretirement benefits environmental compliance claims and litigation including self insurance income taxes We believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates; however, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ECONOMIC/POLITICAL RISKS Both commercial and residential construction are dependent upon the overall U.S. economy which has been recovering at a slow pace Commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall U.S. economy has been adversely affected by this recession. Although most economists believe that the U.S. economy is now in recovery, the pace of recovery has been very slow. Since construction activity generally lags the recovery after down cycles, construction projects have not returned to their pre recession levels. Above average number of foreclosures, low housing starts and general weakness in the housing market could continue to negatively affect demand for our products In most of our markets, particularly Florida and California, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a significant decline in residential construction. Our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until the recovery in residential construction improves. Lack of a multi year federal highway bill and changes to the funding mechanism for highway funding could cause states to spend less on roads which may negatively impact our revenues The last multi year federal transportation bill, known as SAFETEA LU, expired on September 30, 2009. Since that time, funding for transportation projects, including highways, has been provided by a series of continuing resolutions. The current continuing resolution expires on March 31, 2012. Additionally, in January 2011 the U.S. House of Representatives passed a new rules package that repealed a longstanding point of order that had protected annual authorized highway funding levels from amendments that could subsequently reduce such authorized levels. The rule change could potentially result in an authorized level of funding being subsequently reduced at some point in the legislative process. Both the lack of a multi year bill and the change in the funding mechanism increases the uncertainty regarding funds for highway projects. This uncertainty could result in state departments of transportation failing to undertake large multi year highway projects which could, in turn, negatively affect our sales. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, environmental and other areas of the law may result in additional liabilities, a reduction in operating hours and additional capital expenditures Our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite our compliance efforts, we have an inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business. These potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. In addition, our operations are subject to environmental, zoning and land use requirements and require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance and operating expenditures to comply with the applicable requirements. Stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. Part I 19 Table of Contents Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our business A number of governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. Such legislation or regulation, if enacted, potentially could include provisions for a cap and trade system of allowances and credits, among other provisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated a mandatory reporting rule covering greenhouse gas emissions from sources considered to be large emitters. The EPA has also promulgated a greenhouse gas emissions permitting rule, referred to as the Tailoring Rule, which requires permitting of large emitters of greenhouse gases under the Federal Clean Air Act. We have determined that our Newbery cement plant is subject to both the reporting rule and the permitting rule, although the impacts of the permitting rule are uncertain at this time. The first required greenhouse gas emissions report for the Newberry cement plant was submitted to the EPA on March 31, 2011. Other potential impacts of climate change include physical impacts such as disruption in production and product distribution due to impacts from major storm events, shifts in regional weather patterns and intensities, and potential impacts from sea level changes. There is also a potential for climate change legislation and regulation to adversely impact the cost of purchased energy and electricity. The impacts of climate change on our operations and the company overall are highly uncertain and difficult to estimate. However, climate change and legislation and regulation concerning greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. GROWTH AND COMPETITIVE RISKS Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry which may negatively impact prices, volumes and costs The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies, some of which are more vertically integrated than we are. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. This significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. In certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have acquired a portion of our asphalt mix and ready mixed concrete customers and this trend may accelerate. Our long term success depends upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas. If we are unable to secure and permit such reserves it could negatively affect our earnings in the future Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites and are served by truck. New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, therefore our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. Our future growth depends in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, it could lead to higher costs and could negatively affect our earnings The expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own or control aggregates reserves. Disruptions in the availability of financing could make it more difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. Additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our existing operations. PERSONNEL RISKS Our future success greatly depends upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. Part I 20 Table of Contents The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. However, if these costs continue to rise, we could suffer an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OTHER RISKS Weather can materially affect our operating results Almost all of our products are consumed outdoors in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers short term demand because their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our financial results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, often by third party providers. Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings Our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. The costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation, which could affect our operating results and profitability In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum based resources. The availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors that interrupt their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty We are involved in several complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business. Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For a description of our current significant legal proceedings see Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies in 
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR 2011 Aggregates gross profit per ton remained relatively stable due primarily to improved pricing and cost containment through productivity gains in labor and energy efficiency Gross profit was $2.14 per ton versus $2.17 per ton in 2010 Freight adjusted aggregates pricing increased 1% Aggregates shipments decreased 3% Asphalt mix and ready mixed concrete pricing increased 8% and 6%, respectively Unit costs for diesel fuel and liquid asphalt increased 35% and 17%, respectively, reducing pretax earnings $63.0 million, or $0.29 per diluted share Selling, Administrative and General (SAG) costs were down $37.5 million, or 11%, from the prior year Net earnings were a loss of $70.8 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, versus a loss of $96.5 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, in 2010 EBITDA was $425.2 million, an increase of $54.6 million, or 15%, from 2010 and includes: gains totaling $86.1 million from the sale of a business and a legal settlement charges totaling $15.2 million related to restructuring and costs related to Martin Mariettas unsolicited exchange offer Capital spending was $98.9 million, up modestly from $86.3 million in the prior year KEY DRIVERS OF VALUE CREATION * Source: Moodys Analytics Part II 30 Table of Contents EARNINGS GROWTH INITIATIVES In February 2012, our Board of Directors approved a two part initiative to accelerate earnings growth and improve our credit profile: A Profit Enhancement Plan that includes cost reductions and other earnings enhancements of $100 million. The run rate earnings effect is expected to be achieved within the next 18 months as we fully leverage our streamlined management structure and substantially completed ERP and Shared Services platforms. These profit enhancements are in addition to the actions announced in 2011, which produced the $55 million in run rate overhead savings as cited above. Planned Asset Sales with net after tax proceeds of approximately $500 million from the sale of non core assets over the next 12 to 18 months. The net proceeds of these sales, together with the increased earnings resulting from the Profit Enhancement Plan, will be used to reduce debt and strengthen our balance sheet and credit profile. The intended asset sales are consistent with our strategic focus on building leading aggregates positions in markets with above average long term demand growth. CORRECTION OF PRIOR PERIOD FINANCIAL STATEMENT In preparation for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) exam during 2011, we identified improper deductions and errors in the calculation of taxable income for items primarily associated with the 2007 acquisition of Florida Rock. The errors arose during periods prior to 2009 and are not material to previously issued financial statements. As a result, we did not amend previously filed financial statements but have restated the affected Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statements of Equity presented in this Form 10 K. See Note 20 Correction of Prior Period Financial Statement in 
 
