FILE:TRIP/TRIP-8K-20120501160151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2012, TripAdvisor, Inc. issued a press release announcing its preliminary financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The full text of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
TripAdvisor, Inc. makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures in the press release, and includes information regarding such measures in the press release.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 and Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 1, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
May 1, 2012  TripAdvisor, Inc. (NASDAQ: TRIP), the world's largest travel site*, today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012.
NEWTON, MA,
 
 
 
 
"TripAdvisor posted record revenue this past quarter driven by strong growth across our business," said Steve Kaufer, President and CEO of TripAdvisor. "Our travel community has never been stronger with over 60 million reviews and opinions and adding content at a rate of more than 40 contributions per minute. We continue to extend our market leadership position through real-time innovation across desktop, tablet and mobile and are thrilled with the opportunities in front of us. It is a very exciting time to be at TripAdvisor."
Discussion of First Quarter 2012 Results
Revenues for the first quarter of 2012 were $183.7 million, an increase of $34.5 million, or 23%, compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Revenues from click-based advertising totaled $144.9 million for the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 20% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Click-based advertising revenue represented 79% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 81% in the first quarter of 2011.
Click-based advertising 
Revenues from display-based advertising totaled $21.6 million for the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 17% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Display-based advertising revenue represented 12% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 12% in the first quarter of 2011.
Display-based advertising 
Revenues from subscription and other totaled $17.2 million for the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 67% compared to the first quarter of 2011. Subscription and other revenue represented 9% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 7% in the first quarter of 2011.
Subscription and other 
For the first quarter of 2012, revenues from the U.S. totaled $95.4 million, and represented 52% of total revenue. Revenues from the U.K. totaled $28.0 million, and represented 15% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2012. Revenues from the rest of the world totaled $60.3 million, and represented 33% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2012. Click-based advertising revenue and display-based advertising revenue by geography are measured by the point-of-sale on which the transaction occurs.
Related-party revenues from Expedia totaled $51.6 million for the first quarter of 2012, a decrease of $2.4 million, or 4%, compared to the first quarter of 2011.
GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2012 was $48.1 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, compared to GAAP net income of $47.3 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2011. For the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we computed diluted earnings per share using the number of shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding immediately following the spin-off from Expedia, as no TripAdvisor equity awards were outstanding prior to the spin-off.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $84.2 million, and Adjusted EBITDA margin was 46%, compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $82.0 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin of 55% for the first quarter of 2011.
Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter of 2012 was $29.7 million, a decrease of $23.6 million, or 44%, compared to the first quarter of 2011. These decreases were due primarily to working capital adjustments related to the spin-off from Expedia, including the development of our public company infrastructure and resources.
Other First Quarter 2012 and Recent Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
TripAdvisor will host a conference call today, May 1, 2012, at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss TripAdvisor's first quarter 2012 operating results, as well as other forward-looking information about TripAdvisor's business. Domestic callers may access the earnings conference call by dialing (877) 224-9081 (International callers, dial (224) 357-2223). Investors and other interested parties may also go to the Investor Relations section of TripAdvisor's website at for a live webcast of the conference call. Please access the website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to register, download, and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the conference call will be available on TripAdvisor's website noted above or by phone (dial (855) 859-2056 and enter the pass code 64624102) until May 8, 2012 and the webcast will be accessible at http://ir.tripadvisor.com/events.cfm for at least 12 months following the conference call.
http://ir.tripadvisor.com/events.cfm
About TripAdvisor
TripAdvisor is the world's largest travel site,* enabling travelers to plan and have the perfect trip. TripAdvisor offers trusted advice from real travelers and a wide variety of travel choices and planning features with seamless links to booking tools. TripAdvisor-branded sites make up the largest travel community in the world, with more than 50 million unique monthly visitors,* and over 60 million reviews and opinions. The sites operate in 30 countries worldwide, including China under . TripAdvisor also includes TripAdvisor for Business, a dedicated division that provides the tourism industry access to TripAdvisor's millions of monthly visitors.
daodao.com
TripAdvisor, Inc. (NASDAQ: TRIP) manages and operates websites under 19 other travel media brands, and together the sites attract more than 69 million unique monthly visitors.** TripAdvisor's travel media brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .
www.airfarewatchdog.com
www.bookingbuddy.com
www.cruisecritic.com
www.everytrail.com
www.familyvacationcritic.com
www.flipkey.com
www.holidaylettings.co.uk
www.holidaywatchdog.com
www.independenttraveler.com
www.onetime.com
www.seatguru.com
www.sniqueaway.com
www.smartertravel.com
www.tingo.com
www.travel-library.com
www.travelpod.com
www.virtualtourist.com
www.whereivebeen.com
www.kuxun.cn
 
2012 TripAdvisor, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement the financial measures presented in TripAdvisor's press release and related conference call or webcast in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), TripAdvisor also reports Non-GAAP net income, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and free cash flow, which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures. A "non-GAAP financial measure" refers to a numerical measure of a company's historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in such company's financial statements.
TripAdvisor defines "Non-GAAP net income" as net income before expenses related to stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, net of related tax effects.
TripAdvisor defines "Non-GAAP net income per diluted share" as Non-GAAP net income divided by non-GAAP diluted weighted average shares outstanding, which includes dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all weighted average shares relating to restricted stock units in shares outstanding for Non-GAAP net income per diluted share. This differs from the GAAP method for including restricted stock units, which treats them on a treasury stock method basis. Shares outstanding for Non-GAAP net income per diluted share purposes is therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP net income per diluted share purposes.
TripAdvisor defines "Adjusted EBITDA" as operating income (loss), excluding depreciation of property and equipment, which includes internal use software and website development, amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation and non-recurring expenses. Adjusted EBITDA is the primary metric by which management evaluates the performance of its business and on which internal budgets are based. Adjusted EBITDA eliminates items that are either not part of TripAdvisor's core operations such as the costs incurred to spin-off from Expedia or those costs that do not require a cash outlay, such as stock-based compensation. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense, which is based on TripAdvisor's estimate of the useful life of tangible and intangible assets. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on historical costs and other factors and may not be indicative of current or future capital expenditures. We believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and non-recurring expenses, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced.
TripAdvisor defines "Adjusted EBITDA margin" as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues.
TripAdvisor defines "Non-GAAP Selling and Marketing" and "Non GAAP Technology and Content" expenses as GAAP Selling and Marketing and GAAP Technology and Content expenses, respectively, before stock-based compensation expense. The Company defines "Non-GAAP General and Administrative" expense as GAAP General and Administrative expense, including related-party shared services expense and before stock-based compensation expense. These are collectively defined as "Non-GAAP Operating Expenses."
TripAdvisor defines "free cash flow" as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures, which are purchases of property and equipment, including capitalization of internal-use software development costs. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful measures for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as these measures allow a more meaningful comparison of our projected cash earnings and performance with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, management uses these measures internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole.
TripAdvisor provides these non-GAAP financial measures as additional information relating to TripAdvisor's operating results as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. The non-GAAP financial information presented here should be considered in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for or superior to the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered measures of TripAdvisor's liquidity. There are significant limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Further, these measures may differ from the non-GAAP information, even where similarly titled, used by other companies and therefore should not be used to compare the Company's performance to that of other companies. TripAdvisor endeavors to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, we present a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest GAAP measure below.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements in this press release regarding management's future expectations, beliefs, intentions, goals, strategies, plans or prospects, including, without limitation, statements relating to TripAdvisor's future financial performance on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basismay constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "could increase the likelihood," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "is planned," "may," "should," "will," "will enable," "would be expected," "look forward," "may provide," "would" or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding management's plans, objectives and strategies, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors including those risks, uncertainties and factors detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result of such risks, uncertainties and factors, the Company's actual results may differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements discussed in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. TripAdvisor is providing the information in this press release as of this date and assumes no obligations to update the information included in this press release or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
,
Contacts
Investors
(617) 795.7848
ir@tripadvisor.com
Media
(617) 795.7528
uspr@tripadvisor.com


