FILE:AET/AET-8K-20090727074758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2009, Aetna Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
News Release
 
 
 
 
 
YSE: AET) today announced second-quarter 2009 operating earnings of $308.5 million, or $.68 per share, a 28 percent decrease from the prior-year quarter.  Operating earnings exclude net realized capital gains (losses) and an other item.  Second-quarter 2009 net income was $346.6 million, or $.77 per
HARTFORD, Conn., July 27, 2009
  Aetna (N
(1)
share, a 21 percent decrease from the prior-year quarter.
 
The second-quarter 2009 operating earnings were affected by significantly higher Commercial medical costs, which reflect higher second quarter 2009 medical costs and additional unfavorable reserve development, primarily from 2008.  These factors resulted in a lower Commercial underwriting margin in the companys Health Care business.  The second-quarter operating earnings also reflect the impact of lower-than-projected 2009 Medicare revenue, which the company previously disclosed.
 
Aetna/2
 
The higher-than-projected medical costs experienced were not fully captured in 2009 pricing, which resulted in a higher Commercial medical benefit ratio for the second quarter of 2009.  The company is taking appropriate actions to address higher medical costs, including pricing actions, enhanced medical management and provider contracting.  The company expects that full-year 2009 operating earnings will continue to be adversely affected by a higher Commercial medical benefit ratio.  As a result, the company has revised its full-year 2009 operating earnings per share projection to a range of $2.75 to $2.90.
 
"Our second quarter results do not meet our expectations or the standards we have established over several years of strong operational execution and financial performance, said Ronald A. Williams, chairman and CEO.  We continue to see upward pressure on medical costs beyond what we projected in early June, which we believe is driven in part by changing provider behavior in the face of a deep recession.  We did not fully capture the impact of these forces in our 2009 pricing.  This is disappointing, but it can be fixed.
 
Mark Bertolini, president, said, We believe these increases in Commercial medical costs are largely the result of continued higher claim intensity, such as services rendered in a higher cost setting and more tests and procedures per visit, resulting in higher costs for emergency room, ambulatory, laboratory and preventive services.We are taking immediate actions to address these issues.
 
 
Aetna/3
 
"We have factored the most recent medical cost experience into our actuarial methodologies in setting our June 30 reserves and into our revised full-year outlook, said Joseph M. Zubretsky, executive vice president and CFO.  "Meanwhile, we continue to have a very strong financial profile and capital position, and our health care revenue growth is strong.  In addition, we continue to effectively manage our operating expenses while making the appropriate investments to ensure our long-term competitive strength.
 
Given our updated outlook, we now project operating earnings per share for full-year 2009 to be in the range of $2.75 to $2.90 and our full-year 2009 Commercial medical benefit ratio to be in the range of 84.0 percent to 84.5 percent, Zubretsky said.
 
"Aetna has a sound strategy.  We have built a diverse portfolio of high-performing businesses; our brand continues to resonate in our key markets; and we have a sound business model.  We are confident that we can achieve our goal of long-term profitable growth, Williams said.
 
 
Health Care business results
Health Care, which provides a full range of insured and self-insured medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health products and services, reported:
Aetna/4
 
 
 
 
Group Insurance business results
Group Insurance, which includes group life, disability and long-term care products, reported:
 
 
 
Aetna/5
Large Case Pensions business results
Large Case Pensions, which manages a variety of discontinued and other retirement and savings products, primarily qualified pension plans, reported:
 
Total company results
 
Aetna/6
 
 
The public may access the conference call through a live audio webcast available on Aetnas Investor Information link on the internet at www.aetna.com.  Financial, statistical and other information, including GAAP reconciliations, related to the conference call also will be available on Aetnas Investor Information web site.
Aetnas conference call to discuss second quarter 2009 results and full-year 2009 guidance will begin at 8:30 a.m. ET today.
 
 
The conference call also can be accessed by dialing 888-318-7470 or 719-325-2383 for international callers.  The company suggests participants dial in approximately 10 minutes before the call.  The access code is 5460217.  Individuals who dial in will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.
 
A replay of the call may be accessed through Aetnas Investor Information link on the internet at or by dialing 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820 for international callers.  The replay access code is 5460217.  Telephone replays will be available from 11:00 a.m. ET on July 27, 2009 until midnight ET on August 10, 2009.
www.aetna.com
 
About Aetna
Aetna is one of the nations leading diversified health care benefits companies, serving approximately 36.8 million people with information and resources to help them make better informed decisions about their health care. Aetna offers a broad range of traditional and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, and medical management capabilities and health care management services for Medicaid plans. Our customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates.  For more information, see
www.aetna.com
.
 
Aetna/7 
 
 
 
Aetna/8 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/9
 
Aetna/10
 
 
Aetna/12 
 
 
Aetna/13
 
Operating earnings exclude net losses and other items, if any, from net income.  Although the excluded items may recur, management believes that operating earnings and operating earnings per
(1)
realized gains and
capital
from period to period.  Management uses operating earnings to assess business performance and to make decisions regarding Aetnas operations among Aetnas businesses. Operating earnings is also the measure reported to the Chief Executive Officer for these purposes.
share provide a more useful comparison of Aetnas underlying business performance
and of resources
allocation
 
Each of the excluded items is discussed below:
 
Revenue excludes net realized capital gains and losses.
 
For a reconciliation of these items to financial measures calculated under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), refer to the tables on pages 8 through 10 and page 12 of this press release.
 
Projected operating earnings per share exclude any future net realized capital gains or losses and other items, if any, from net income. Aetna is not able to project the amount of future net realized capital gains or losses and therefore cannot reconcile projected operating earnings to projected net income in any period.  Projected operating earnings per share for the full year 2009 assumes approximately 450 million weighted average diluted shares.
(2)
 
The operating expense ratio excludes net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any.  Refer to a reconciliation of this metric to the comparable GAAP measure on page 10.
(3)
 
In order to provide useful information regarding Aetnas profitability on a basis comparable to others in the industry, without regard to financing decisions, income taxes or amortization of other acquired intangible assets (each of which may vary for reasons not directly related to the performance of the underlying business), Aetnas pretax operating margin is based on operating earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes and amortization of other acquired intangible assets. Management also uses pre-tax operating margin to assess Aetnas performance, including performance versus competitors.
(4)
 
Our Corporate Financing segment is not a business segment.  It is added to our business segments to reconcile to our consolidated results.  The Corporate Financing segment includes interest expense on our outstanding debt and, beginning in 2009, the financing components of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan expenses (referred to herein as "pension expense") (the service cost (or operating component) of this expense is allocated to our business segments).  The service cost component allocated to our business segments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009  was $10.7 million ($6.9 million after tax) and $21.3 million ($13.8 million after tax), respectively, and $9.4 million ($6.1 million after tax) and $18.8 million ($12.2 million after tax) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively. Prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this change.
(5)
 
Revenue and operating expense information is presented before income taxes.  Operating earnings information is presented net of income taxes.
(6)
 
Represents members in consumer-directed health plans included in Aetnas Commercial medical membership.
(7)
 
Represents members in products that allow these members access to Aetnas dental provider network for a nominal fee.
(8)
 
Represents members who purchased medications through Aetna Rx Home Delivery, our mail order pharmacy, during the quarterly period and are included in pharmacy membership above.
(9)
Aetna/14
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION -- -- Certain information in this press release is forward-looking, including our projections as to operating earnings per share, medical benefit ratios, weighted average diluted shares, the impact of actions designed to address higher medical costs and the impact of our Commercial medical benefit ratio on operating earnings. Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetnas control.  Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, including unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased intensity or medical utilization; changes in membership mix to higher cost or lower-premium products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends; increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contracting with providers; and increased pharmacy costs); adverse and less predictable economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad (including unanticipated levels of or rate of increase in the unemployment rate) which can significantly and adversely affect Aetnas business and profitability; failure to achieve desired rate increases and/or profitable membership growth due to the slowing economy and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is concentrated; continued volatility and further deterioration of the U.S. and global capital markets, including fluctuations in interest rates, fixed income and equity prices and the value of financial assets, along with the general deterioration in the commercial paper, capital and credit markets, which can adversely impact the value of Aetnas investment portfolio, Aetnas profitability by reducing net investment income and/or Aetnas financial position by causing us to realize additional impairments on our investments; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; and adverse changes in federal or state government policies or regulation (including legislative proposals that would affect our business model and/or limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing and other proposals, such as initiatives to eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws, that would increase potential litigation exposure or mandate coverage of certain health benefits).  Other important risk factors include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership; increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any epidemics, acts of terrorism or other extreme events; the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including litigation concerning, and ongoing reviews by various regulatory authorities of, certain of our payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers; and reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means. For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Aetnas 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and Aetnas Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 (Aetnas Second Quarter 10-Q), when filed with the SEC.  You also should read Aetnas Second Quarter 10-Q, when filed with the SEC, for a discussion of Aetnas historical results of operations and financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


