FILE:AET/AET-8K-20090212063144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 12, 2009, Aetna Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2008.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

99.1
Exhibit
 
_________________________________________________________
News Release
YSE: AET) today announced that fourth-quarter 2008 operating earnings per share, which exclude net realized capital losses and other items, increased 9 percent to $0.96.  Full-year 2008 operating earnings per share increased 13 percent to $3.93.  The increase in operating earnings per share reflects significant growth in revenue, solid underwriting results and continued operating expense efficiencies, partially offset by lower net investment income.  Operating results also benefited from share repurchases and the full-year impact of recent acquisitions.  The companys 17 percent growth in full year health care revenue was driven by premium rate increases and medical membership growth in both core and newer customer segments.  Total health care revenue, including realized capital losses, grew by 16 percent for the full year.
HARTFORD, Conn., February 12, 2009
 Aetna (N
(1)
 
 
 
Aetna/2
Net income, which includes net realized capital losses and other items, was $0.42 per share for the fourth quarter of 2008, 52 percent lower than the prior-year quarter, due to net realized capital losses of $0.42 per share and the previously announced severance and facility charge and contribution for the establishment of a new out-of-network pricing database of $.08 and $.04 per share, respectively.  Full-year 2008 net income was $2.83 per share, 18 percent lower than 2007, primarily due to net realized capital losses of $.99 per share.  The majority of the net realized capital losses resulted from declines in the market value of debt securities in the companys investment portfolio as a result of the widening of credit spreads in 2008.
 
 
Aetna delivered another year of solid results in 2008 despite the challenging economic environment, said Ronald A. Williams, chairman and CEO. These results included industry-leading organic medical membership growth of 848,000, or 5 percent; more than half of which came from growth in newer customer segments. This growth underscores the success of our segmentation strategy to continuously identify new customer markets to serve.
 
 
Aetna/3
As we enter 2009, we are listening very closely to our customers to make sure we understand their needs and can respond appropriately," Williams said.  "Our underlying business fundamentals remain strong because of our sound and flexible operating model and a value proposition that is resonating in the marketplace. We believe we remain well positioned for continued success.
We delivered industry-leading operating earnings per share growth of 13 percent in 2008, a strong result in light of the increasingly difficult economic environment that developed as the year progressed, said Joseph M. Zubretsky, executive vice president and CFO. Our strong membership growth, combined with our disciplined pricing actions, drove double-digit revenue growth.
In addition, despite the impact of the volatile financial markets on our investment portfolio, our sound investment and capital management strategies enabled us to end 2008 with a high-quality balance sheet and in an excellent capital position, Zubretsky said.  We project our 2009 operating earnings per share to be $3.85 to $3.95.  Excluding the incremental non-cash pension expense we expect in 2009, this represents a 12 to 14 percent growth over 2008.
Health Care business results
Health Care, which provides a full range of insured and self-insured medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health products and services, reported:
 
 
 
Aetna/4
 
 
Full-year 2008 operating earnings for Health Care were $1.9 billion, compared with $1.8 billion in 2007.  Full-year operating earnings were higher primarily due to 17 percent revenue growth (excluding net realized capital losses), primarily from membership growth and premium rate increases.  Full-year 2008 net income was $1.6 billion, compared with $1.7 billion in 2007. Full-year 2008 net income includes $213.1 million of net realized capital losses, a $35.6 million severance and facility charge and a $20.0 million contribution to a non-profit organization to help create a new independent database for determining out-of-network reimbursement rates.  Full-year 2008 Commercial MBR was 80.3 percent, compared with 79.5 percent for 2007.  Full-year membership growth was 848,000.
 
 
Group Insurance business results
Group Insurance, which includes group life, disability and long-term care products, reported:
Aetna/5
 
 
For full-year 2008, Group Insurance reported operating earnings of $140.0 million, compared with $145.5 million for 2007.  The decrease was due to lower net investment income partially offset by an improved underwriting margin.  Full-year net loss for 2008 was $112.1 million, including net realized capital losses of $224.7 million, and $27.4 million for the allowance recorded on a reinsurance recoverable from a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Full-year net income for 2007 was $120.4 million.
Large Case Pensions, which manages a variety of discontinued and other retirement and savings products, primarily qualified pension plans, reported:
For full-year 2008, Large Case Pensions, reported operating earnings of $39.2 million, compared with $38.1 million for 2007.  Full-year net income for 2008 was $23.2 million, including $44.5
million of net realized capital losses, compared with a net income of $79.0 million for 2007.  Net income for full-year 2008 and 2007 also includes $28.5 million and $41.8 million, respectively, of after-tax benefits related to the reduction of reserves for discontinued products.
Total company results
 
 
Aetna/6
 
 
 
 
Aetna/7
 
 
 
Aetnas conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full-year 2008 results will begin at 8:30 a.m. ET today.  The public may access the conference call through a live audio webcast available on Aetnas Investor Information link on the internet at www.aetna.com.  Financial, statistical and other information, including GAAP reconciliations, related to the conference call also will be available on Aetnas Investor Information web site.
The conference call also can be accessed by dialing 877-419-6603, or 719-325-4889for international callers.  Aetna suggests participants dial in approximately 10 minutes before the call.  The access code is 6507984.  Individuals who dial in will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.
 
A replay of the call may be accessed through Aetnas Investor Information link on the internet at www.aetna.com or by dialing 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820 for international callers. The replay access code is 6507984. Telephone replays will be available from 11:30 a.m. ET on February 12 until midnight ET on February 26, 2009.
About Aetna
Aetna is one of the nations leading diversified health care benefits companies, serving approximately 36.5 million people with information and resources to help them make better informed decisions about their health care. Aetna offers a broad range of traditional and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, and medical management
 
 
 
Aetna/8
 
capabilities and health care management services for Medicaid plans. Our customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates.  For more information, see www.aetna.com.
 
 
 
Aetna/9
 
Aetna/10
 
 
 
Aetna/11
 
Aetna/12
 
 
 
Aetna/13
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/14
 
Aetna/15
 
Operating earnings exclude net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any, from net income as discussed below.  Although the excluded items may recur, management believes that operating earnings and operating earnings per share provide a more useful comparison of Aetnas underlying business performance from period to period.  Management uses operating earnings to assess business performance and to make decisions regarding Aetnas operations and allocation of resources among Aetnas businesses. Operating earnings is also the measure reported to the Chief Executive Officer for these purposes.  Each of the excluded items is discussed below:
(1)
 
Revenue excludes net realized capital gains and losses.
For a reconciliation of these items to financial measures calculated under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), refer to the tables on pages 10 through 12 and page 14 of this press release.
 
Projected operating earnings per share exclude any future net realized capital gains or losses and other items, if any, from net income. Aetna is not able to project the amount of future net realized capital gains or losses and therefore cannot reconcile projected operating earnings to projected net income, or to a projected change in net income, in any period.  Projected operating earnings per share for the full year 2009 assumes approximately 460 million weighted average diluted shares.
(2)
 
Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue excludes a severance and facility charge, the contribution to a non-profit organization and the allowance recorded on the reinsurance recoverable (each of which are described in footnote above) from operating expenses and net realized capital gains and losses from total revenue.
(3)
(1)
 
In order to provide useful information regarding Aetnas profitability on a basis comparable to others in the industry, without regard to financing decisions, income taxes or amortization of other acquired intangible assets (each of which may vary for reasons not directly related to the performance of the underlying business), Aetnas pretax operating margin is based on operating earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes and amortization of other acquired intangible assets. Management also uses pre-tax operating margin to assess Aetnas performance, including performance versus competitors.
(4)
 
Includes the severance and facility charge, the contribution to a non-profit organization and the allowance on reinsurance recoverable, each of which are described in footnote above.
(
5
)
(1)
 
Revenue and operating expense information is presented before income taxes.  Operating earnings information is presented net of income taxes.
(6)
 
Includesmembers who participated in a CMS pilot program under which we provided disease and case management services to selected Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries in exchange for a fee.  This program terminated in September 2008.
(7)
 
 
Represents members in consumer-directed health plans included in Aetnas Commercial medical membership.
(8)
Represents members in products that allow these members access to Aetnas dental provider network for a nominal fee.
(9)
 
Represents members who purchased medications through Aetna Rx Home Delivery, our mail order pharmacy, during the quarterly period and are included in pharmacy membership above.
(10)
 
 
Aetna/16
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION -- Certain information in this press release is forward-looking, including our expectations and projections as to operating earnings per share, increase in 2009 pension expense and weighted average diluted shares. Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetna's control.  Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, including adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad which can significantly and adversely affect Aetna's business and profitability; continued volatility and further deterioration of the U.S. and global capital markets, including fluctuations in interest rates, fixed income and equity prices and the value of financial assets, along with the general deterioration in the commercial paper, capital and credit markets, which can adversely impact the value of Aetnas investment portfolio, Aetnas profitability by reducing net investment income and/or Aetnas financial position by causing us to realize additional impairments on our investments; failure to achieve desired rate increases and/or profitable membership growth due to the slowing economy and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is concentrated; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; and unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased medical utilization, increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contracting with providers, increased pharmacy costs, changes in membership mix to lower-premium or higher-cost products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends); as well as adverse changes in federal or state government policies or regulation (including legislative proposals that would affect our business model and/or limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing and other proposals, such as initiatives to eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws, that would increase potential litigation exposure or mandate coverage of certain health benefits).  Other important risk factors include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership, the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including litigation and ongoing reviews of business practices by various regulatory authorities (including the current industry-wide investigation by the New York Attorney General into certain payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers); reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means; and increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any acts of terrorism, epidemics or other extreme events. For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2007 Annual Report) and September 30, 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Aetnas 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K (the 2008 Annual Report) when filed with the SEC.  You also should read the 2007 Annual Report and Aetnas 2008 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q on file with the SEC and the 2008 Annual Report when filed with the SEC for a discussion of Aetna's historical results of operations and financial condition.


