FILE:AET/AET-8K-20100429064137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 29, 2010, Aetna Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
_________________________________________________________
News Release
 
YSE: AET) today announced first-quarter 2010 operating earnings per share of $.98.  Operating earnings, excluding prior-period development, totaled $337.4 million or $.77 per share, compared to $467.1 million or $1.01 per share in the first quarter of 2009.  Excluding the effect of the prior-period development, operating earnings per share decreased 24 percent from 2009 due t o lower Commercial underwriting margins and lower Insured membership partially offset by a lower number of shares outstanding.  Aetna reported favorable prior-period development of $143 million in the first quarter of 2010, compared with $38 million of unfavorable prior-period development in the first quarter of 2009.  Net income, which includes net realized capital gains and litigation-related insurance proceeds, was $562.6 million, or $1.28 per share.
HARTFORD, Conn., April 29, 2010
 Aetna (N
(1)
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/2
nm (not meaningful)
*
 
 
"Our first-quarter operating results reflect the impact of the significant actions we have taken to improve our performance, as demonstrated by the better-than-expected Commercial medical benefit ratio," said Ronald A. Williams, chairman and CEO.  "Lower medical costs for Aetna allow us to continue to invest in innovation and offer our customers greater value through more affordable products.
 
"As we continue to focus on performance improvement, challenges remain.  Economic pressures are still being felt by employers and consumers and are having an impact on enrollment and health care costs.  We remain focused on achieving operating excellence, meeting the needs of our customers and preparing for opportunities from changes in the market stemming from health care reform.  We are confident in our long-term future."
 
"We are working through the economic and other challenges from a position of strength as evidenced by our strong capital position, excellent operating cash flows and improved investment performance," said Joseph M. Zubretsky, executive vice president and CFO.  "Our first-quarter results reflect our initiatives to improve medical quality and cost as well as the impact of favorable prior-period reserve development.  We now project full-year 2010 operating earnings per share to be in the range of $2.75 to $2.85." 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/3
 
Health Care business results
Health Care, which provides a full range of insured and self-insured medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health products and services, reported:
 
 
 
 
Aetna/4
 
Group Insurance business results
Group Insurance, which includes group life, disability and long-term care products, reported:
 
Large Case Pensions business results
Large Case Pensions, which manages a variety of discontinued and other retirement and savings products, primarily qualified pension plans, reported:
 
Total company results
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/5
 
 
 
Aetnas conference call to discuss quarter 2010 results will begin at 8:30 a.m. ET today.  The public may access the conference call through a live audio webcast available on Aetnas Investor Information link on the Internet at www.aetna.com. Financial, statistical and other information, including GAAP reconciliations, related to the conference call also will be available on Aetnas Investor Information web site.
first
 
The conference call also can be accessed by dialing 877-795-3610 or 719-325-4871 for international callers. The company suggests participants dial in approximately 10 minutes before the call. The access code is 5410384. Individuals who dial in will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.
 
A replay of the call may be accessed through Aetnas Investor Information link on the Internet at www.aetna.com or by dialing 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820 for international callers. The replay access code is 5410384. Telephone replays will be available from 11:00 a.m. ET on April 29, 2010 until midnight ET on May 13, 2010
.
 
 
 
 
Aetna/6
 
About Aetna
 
Aetna is one of the nations leading diversified health care benefits companies, serving approximately 36.1 million people with information and resources to help them make better informed decisions about their health care. Aetna offers a broad range of traditional and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, and medical management capabilities and health care management services for Medicaid plans. Our customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates. For more information, see www.aetna.com.
 
 
 
 
Aetna/7
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/12
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/13
 
per share provide a more useful comparison of Aetnas underlying business performance from period to period.  Management uses operating earnings to assess business performance and to make decisions regarding Aetnas operations and allocation of resources among Aetnas businesses. Operating earnings is also the measur e reported to the Chief Executive Officer for these purposes.
(1)
Operating earnings exclude net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any, from net income.  Although the excluded items may recur, management believes that operating earnings and operating earnings
 
The following items are excluded from operating earnings because we believe they neither relate to the ordinary course of our business nor reflect our underlying business performance:
 
 
For a reconciliation of these items to financial measures calculated under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), refer to the tables on pages 8 through 10 and 12 of this press release.
 
Operating earnings, excluding prior-period development; operating earnings per share, excluding prior-period development; health care costs, excluding prior-period development; and medical benefit ratios, excluding prior-period development; each exclude the items noted in above, if applicable, and any significant development of prior-period health care cost estimates.
(2)
(1)
 
Projected operating earnings per share exclude any future net realized capital gains or losses and other items, if any, from net income.  Aetna is not able to project the amount of future net realized capital gains or losses and therefore cannot reconcile projected operating earnings to projected net income in any period.  Projected operating earnings per share also exclude any impact of health care reform except as set forth below and/or of future development of prior-period health care costs estimates, which Aetna is not able to project.  Projected operating earnings per share for th e full year 2010 reflect our current projection for 2010 spending to prepare for health care reform, approximately 430 million weighted average diluted shares and the impact of favorable first quarter 2010 development of prior-period health care costs estimates.
(3)
 
Revenue excludes net realized capital gains and losses as noted in above.  Refer to tables on pages 9, 10 and 12 of this press release for a reconciliation of revenue excluding net realized capital gains and losses to revenue calculated under GAAP.
(4)
(1)
 
The operating expense ratio excludes net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any.  Refer to a reconciliation of this metric to the comparable GAAP measure on page 10 of this press release.
(5)
 
In order to provide useful information regarding Aetnas profitability on a basis comparable to others in the industry, without regard to financing decisions, income taxes or amortization of other acquired intangible assets (each of which may vary for reasons not directly related to the performance of the underlying business), Aetnas pretax operating margin is based on operating earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes and amortization of other acquired intangible assets. Management also uses pre-tax operating margin to assess Aetnas performance, including performance versus competitors.
(6)
 
Revenue and operating expense information is presented before income taxes.  Operating earnings, and operating earnings, excluding prior-period development information is presented net of income taxes.
(7)
 
Our Corporate Financing segment is not a business segment.  It is added to our business segments to reconcile to our consolidated results.  The Corporate Financing segment includes interest expense on our outstanding debt and the financing components of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan expenses.
(8)
 
Represents members in consumer-directed health plans included in Aetnas Commercial medical membership.
(9)
 
Represents members in products that allow these members access to Aetnas dental provider network for a nominal fee.
(10)
 
Represents members who purchased medications through our mail order pharmacy operations during the quarterly period and are included in pharmacy membership above.
(11)
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/14
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION -- -- Certain information in this press release is forward-looking, including our projections as to operating earnings per share and weighted average diluted shares.  Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetna's control. Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, particularly the implementation of health care reform legislation. Health care reform will significantly impact our business operations and financial results, including our medical benefit ratios.  Components of the legislation will be phased in over the next eight years, and we wi ll be required to dedicate material resources and incur material expenses during that time to implement health care reform.  Many significant parts of the legislation require further guidance and clarification in the form of regulations.  As a result, many of the impacts of health care reform will not be known until those regulations are enacted, which we expect to occur over the next several years.  Other important risk factors include adverse and less predictable economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad (including unanticipated levels of or rate of increase in the unemployment rate); adverse changes in federal or state government policies or regulations as a result of health care reform or otherwise (including legislative measures that would affect our business model, limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing, such as mandated minimum medical benefit ratios, eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws (increasing our potential litigation exposure) or mandate coverage of certain health benefits); our ability to differentiate our products and solutions from those offered by our competitors, and demonstrate that our products lead to access to better quality of care by our members; unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased intensity or medical utilization as a result of the H1N1 flu, increased COBRA participation rates or otherwise; changes in membership mix to higher cost or lower-premium products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends; increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contracting with providers, and increased pharmacy costs); failure to achieve desired rate increa ses and/or profitable membership growth due to the slowing economy, regulatory restrictions and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is concentrated; adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; managing CEO succession and retention of key executive talent; the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including the CMS review and sanctions, litigation concerning, and ongoing reviews by various regulatory autho rities of, certain of our payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers; reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means; the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer; increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any epidemics, acts of terrorism or other extreme events; and a downgrade in our financial ratings. For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and Aetnas 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 (Aetnas First Quarter 10-Q), when filed with the SEC. You also should read Aetnas First Quarter 10-Q, when filed with the SEC for a discussion of Aetnas historical results of operations and financial conditio n.
 
 
 


