FILE:AET/AET-8K-20100205063319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 5, 2010, Aetna Inc. issued a press release announcing results for the fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2009.  A copy of that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 99.1
   
   
Press release of Aetna Inc. dated February 5, 2010 announcing results for the fourth quarter and full-year ended
    December 31, 2009.
   
   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
______________________________________________________________________
N Release
ews
 
 
offset by the impact of a lower number of outstanding shares.  The lower Commercial underwriting margin was due to a significant increase in Commercial medical costs which was partially offset by an increase in health care premiums.  The lower Group Insurance operating earnings were due to lower disability underwriting margins from increased long-term disability reserves.  Net income for the fourth quarter was $165.9 million, or $.38 per share.
HARTFORD, Conn., February 5, 2010
 Aetna (
N
YSE: AET) today announced fourth-quarter 2009 operating earnings of $178.6 million, or $.40 per share compared to $.96 per share in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The decrease in operating earnings per share from the prior-year quarter reflects a lower Commercial underwriting margin, lower operating earnings in the Group Insurance business and an increase in pension expense partially
 
Full-year 2009 operating earnings per share decreased 30 percent from full year 2008 to $2.75.  Full-year 2009 net income was $2.84 per share, which was generally in line with 2008.
 
 
Aetna/2
 
 
 
 
 
"As we worked through a very challenging 2009, we took significant actions to improve our operational performance and we are moving in the right direction," said Ronald A. Williams, chairman and CEO.  "Entering 2010, a weak economy and high unemployment levels remain challenging, but we continue to implement strategic initiatives and actions that will help build positive momentum and give us confidence for the long-term future."
 
"Aetna enters 2010 in a strong financial position," said Joseph M. Zubretsky, executive vice president and CFO.  "Our capital structure, liquidity and operating cash flows continue to be excellent.  Given the ongoing challenges we expect to face, however, we view 2010 as a repositioning year that will not fully reflect the earnings potential of our business.  We project our 2010 operating earnings per share to be in the range of $2.55 to $2.65."
 
 
Aetna/3
 
Health Care business results
Health Care, which provides a full range of insured and self-insured medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health products and services, reported:
 
 
 
Full-year 2009 operating earnings for Health Care were $1.4 billion, compared with $1.8 billion in 2008.  Full-year operating earnings were lower primarily due to an increase in medical costs that outpaced an increase in premiums.  Full-year medical membership growth was 1.2 million. Full-
 
Aetna/4
 
year 2009 net income was $1.4 billion, compared with $1.5 billion in 2008.  Full-year 2009 Commercial MBR was 84.5 percent, compared with 80.3 percent for 2008.
 
Group Insurance business results
Group Insurance, which includes group life, disability and long-term care products, reported:
 
Full-year 2009 operating earnings for Group Insurance were $103.8 million compared with $136.8 million in 2008.  The decrease was primarily due to increased reserves in our disability business in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Full-year net income for 2009 was $145.6 million compared to a net loss of $115.3 million in 2008.
 
Large
Case Pensions business results
manages a variety of discontinued and other retirement and savings products, primarily qualified pension plans, reported:
Large Case Pensions, which
 
For full-year 2009, Large Case operating earnings of $32.2 million compared with $38.8 million for 2008.  Full-year net income for 2009 was $26.4 million compared with $22.8 million for 2008.
Pensions reported
 
 
Aetna/5
 
Total company results
 
 
 
Aetna/6
 
 
 
Aetnas conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full-year 2009 results will begin at 8:30 a.m. ET todayThe public may access the conference call through a live audio webcast available on Aetnas Investor Information link on the Internet at .  Financial, statistical and other information, including GAAP reconciliations, related to the conference call also will be available on Aetnas Investor Information web site.
.
 
www.aetna.com
 
The conference call also can be accessed by dialing 877-856-1960or 719-325-4747for international callers. The company suggests participants dial in approximately 10 minutes before the call. The access code is 5132468. Individuals who dial in will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.
 
 
 
A replay of the call may be accessed through Aetnas Investor Information link on the Internet at www.aetna.com or by dialing 888-203-1112, or 719-457-0820 for international callers. The
replay access code is 5132468. Telephone replays will be available from 11:00 a.m. ET on February 5, 2010 until midnight ET on February 19, 2010.
 
About Aetna
Aetna is one of the nations leading diversified health care benefits companies, serving approximately 36.1 million people with information and resources to help them make better informed decisions about their health care. Aetna offers a broad range of traditional and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental, behavioral health, group life and disability plans, and medical management capabilities and health care management services for Medicaid plans. Our customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates. For more information, see
www.aetna.com
.
 
 
Aetna/7
 
 
 
Aetna/8
 
 
 
Aetna/9
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna/10
 
 
 
 
Aetna/11
 
 
 
Aetna/12
 
 
 
 
Aetna/13
Operating earnings exclude net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any, from net income.  Although the excluded items may recur, management believes that operating earnings and operating earnings per share provide a more useful comparison of Aetnas underlying business performance from period to period.  Management uses operating earnings to assess business performance and to make decisions regarding Aetnas operations and allocation of resources among Aetnas businesses. Operating earnings is also the measure reported to the Chief Executive Officer for these purposes.
(1)
 
Each of the excluded items is discussed below:
 
 
For a reconciliation of these items to financial measures calculated under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), refer to the tables on pages 8 through 10 and page 12 of this press release.
 
Projected operating earnings per share exclude any future net realized capital gains or losses and other items, if any, from net income.  Aetna is not able to project the amount of future net realized capital gains or losses and therefore cannot reconcile projected operating earnings to projected net income in any period.  Projected operating earnings per share also exclude any impact of health care reform, which Aetna is not able to project.  Projected operating earnings per share for the full year 2010 assumes approximately 430 million weighted average diluted shares.
(2)
 
(3) 
Revenue excludes net realized capital gains and losses and the ESI settlement noted in above.  Refer to tables on pages 9, 10 and 12 of this press release for a reconciliation of revenue excluding net realized capital gains and losses and the ESI settlement to revenue calculated under GAAP.
(1)
 
The operating expense ratio excludes net realized capital gains and losses and other items, if any.  Refer to a reconciliation of this metric to the comparable GAAP measure on page 10 of this press release.
(4)
 
In order to provide useful information regarding Aetnas profitability on a basis comparable to others in the industry, without regard to financing decisions, income taxes or amortization of other acquired intangible assets (each of which may vary for reasons not directly related to the performance of the underlying business), Aetnas pretax operating margin is based on operating earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes and amortization of other acquired intangible assets. Management also uses pre-tax operating margin to assess Aetnas performance, including performance versus competitors.
(5)
 
Our Corporate Financing segment is not a business segment.  It is added to our business segments to reconcile to our consolidated results.  The Corporate Financing segment includes interest expense on our outstanding debt and, beginning in 2009, the financing components of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan expenses (referred to herein as "pension expense") (the service cost and prior service cost (or operating component) of this expense is allocated to our business segments).  The service cost component allocated to our business segments for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009  was $10.6 million ($7.0 million after tax) and $42.6 million ($27.7 million after tax), respectively, and $9.5 million ($6.2 million after tax) and $37.8 million ($24.6 million after tax) for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008, respectively. Prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this change.
(6)
Aetna/14
 
 
Revenue and operating expense information is presented before income taxes.  Operating earnings information is presented net of income taxes.
(7)
 
Represents members in consumer-directed health plans included in Aetnas Commercial medical membership.
(8)
 
Represents members in products that allow these members access to Aetnas dental provider network for a nominal fee.
(9)
 
Represents members who purchased medications through Aetna Rx Home Delivery, our mail order pharmacy, during the quarterly period and are included in pharmacy membership above.
(10)
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION -- -- Certain information in this press release is forward-looking, including our projections as to operating earnings per share and weighted average diluted shares.  Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetnas control.  Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, including unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased intensity or medical utilization as a result of the H1N1 flu, increased COBRA participation rates or otherwise; changes in membership mix to higher cost or lower-premium products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends; increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contracting with providers; and increased pharmacy costs); adverse and less predictable economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad (including unanticipated levels of or rate of increase in the unemployment rate) which can significantly and adversely affect Aetnas business and profitability; failure to achieve desired rate increases and/or profitable membership growth due to the slowing economy and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is concentrated; adverse changes in federal or state government policies or regulations as a result of health care reform or otherwise (including legislative proposals that would affect our business model and/or limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing and other proposals, such as initiatives to mandate minimum medical benefit ratios or eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws, that would increase potential litigation exposure or mandate coverage of certain health benefits); continued volatility and further deterioration of the U.S. and global capital markets, including fluctuations in interest rates, fixed income and equity prices and the value of financial assets, along with the general deterioration in the commercial paper, capital and credit markets, which can adversely impact the value of Aetnas investment portfolio, Aetnas profitability by reducing net investment income and/or Aetnas financial position by causing us to realize additional impairments on our investments; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; and the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer.  Other important risk factors include, but are not limited to:  adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership; increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any epidemics, acts of terrorism or other extreme events; the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including litigation concerning, and ongoing reviews by various regulatory authorities of, certain of our payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers; and reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means. For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Aetnas 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 (Aetnas Third Quarter 10-Q), on file with the SEC.  You also should read the 2008 Annual Report and Aetnas 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q on file with the SEC and Aetna's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K when filed with the SEC for a discussion of Aetnas historical results of operations and financial condition.
 


