FILE:AET/AET-8K-20100112121017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 12, 2010, Joseph M. Zubretsky, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Aetna Inc. ("Aetna") will provide a presentation at the 2010 J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference.  Mr. Zubretsky also will meet with investors and analysts after the presentation.  During this presentation and the subsequent meetings, Aetna intends to reaffirm its previously disclosed full-year 2009 operating earnings guidance of $2.75 per shareand provide its current view that full-year 2010 operating earnings per share is likely to be modestly lower than 2009.
1
Aetnas presentation is scheduled to begin at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time (10:00 a.m. Pacific time).  Investors, analysts and the general public are invited to listen to this presentation over the Internet via Aetnas Investor Information link at www.aetna.com/investor.  A webcast replay will be available on that web site, beginning approximately two hours after the event, for 14 day
s.
A copy of Aetnas presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and the information in the presentation as to Aetnas projected 2009 results of operations and financial condition is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  Certain information in this Form 8-K and the furnished presentation are forward-looking, including our current estimates, projections and views as to 2009 excess capital generation; 2009 operating earnings per share; 2010 operating earnings per share; weighted average diluted shares; our challenges and opportunities for 2010; our ability to respond to health care reform; our ability to hold assets to maturity; our ability to grow our Medicaid business; pre-tax operating margin and fourth quarter 2009 severance and facility charge.  Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetnas control.  Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, including unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased intensity or medical utilization as a result of the H1N1 flu, increased COBRA participation rates or otherwise; changes in membership mix to higher cost or lower-premium products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends; increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contracting with providers; and increased pharmacy costs); adverse and less predictable economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad (including unanticipated levels of or rate of increase in the unemployment rate) which can significantly and adversely affect Aetnas business and profitability; failure to achieve desired rate increases and/or profitable membership growth due to the slowing economy and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is concentrated; adverse changes in federal or state government laws, policies or regulations (including legislative proposals that would affect our business model and/or limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing and other proposals, such as initiatives to mandate minimum medical benefit ratios or eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws, that would increase potential litigation exposure or mandate coverage of certain health benefits); continued volatility and further deterioration of the U.S. and global capital markets, including fluctuations in interest rates, fixed income and equity prices and the value of financial assets, along with the general deterioration in the commercial paper, capital and credit markets, which can adversely impact the value of Aetnas investment portfolio, Aetnas profitability by reducing net investment income and/or Aetnas financial position by causing us to realize additional impairments on our investments; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer; and
 
 
 
 
 
changes in Aetnas actual tax rate, the number of severed employees, the amounts payable to severed employees, expenditures associated with vacating leased properties, our ability to sublease leased properties and the timing of future workforce reductions, in each case compared to the amounts we assumed in estimating the expected fourth quarter 2009 severance and facility charge.  Other important risk factors include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership; increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any epidemics, acts of terrorism or other extreme events; the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including litigation concerning, and ongoing reviews by various regulatory authorities of, certain of our payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers; and reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means.  For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and Aetnas 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 (Aetnas Third Quarter 10-Q) on file with the SEC.  You also should read Aetnas Third Quarter 10-Q for a discussion of Aetnas historical results of operations and financial condition.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be or be deemed
to be
incorporated by reference in any Aetna filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information above in Item 2.02 of this current report, other than the portion of Aetnas presentation thereby incorporated by reference in such Item 2.02, is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.  A copy of Aetnas presentation is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and the information in that presentation other than the information as to Aetnas projected 2009 results of operations and financial condition is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01. 
 
The information in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any Aetna filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
         
99.1
Aetna Inc. Presentation slides for the
2010
J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference dated January 12, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


