FILE:AET/AET-8K-20110523145513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 20, 2011, Aetna Inc.s (Aetnas) shareholders approved an amendment to the Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares authorized to be issued under such Plan.  The amended Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended May 20, 2011, is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item 5.02.
Also on May 20, 2011, Aetnas shareholders approved the Aetna Inc. 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan dated as of May 20, 2011 (the ESPP).  The ESPP is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report and is incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item 5.02.
Item 5.07   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Aetnas Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 20, 2011.  Shareholders voted on the matters set forth below.
1. Election of Director nominees.  Each of the nominees listed below was elected as a Director of Aetna until the next Annual Meeting and until their successors are duly elected and qualified based on the following votes:
2. The proposal to approve the appointment of KPMG LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for Aetna and its subsidiaries for 2011 was approved based on the following votes:
 
 
3. The proposal to approve the proposed amendment to the Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan was approved based on the following votes:
 
 
4. The proposal to approve the proposed Aetna Inc. 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan was approved based on the following votes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. The non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation was approved based on the following votes:
 
6. The non-binding advisory vote on the frequency of the vote on executive compensation was voted on as follows:
 
7. A shareholder proposal relating to cumulative voting in the election of Directors was not approved based on the following votes:
 
8. A shareholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors adopt a policy that the Chairman of Aetna Inc.s Board of Directors be an independent director who has not previously served as an executive officer of Aetna was approved based on the following votes:
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report:
* Compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
As Amended May 20, 2011
SECTION 1.     PURPOSE.
The purposes of this Plan are to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders and align the interests of shareholders and Participants by:
(i) motivating Participants through Awards tied to total return to shareholders (i.e., stock price appreciation and dividends);
(ii) attracting and retaining high performing individuals as Participants;
(iii) enabling Participants to acquire additional equity interests in the Company; and
(iv) providing compensation opportunities dependent upon the Companys performance relative to its competitors and changes in its own performance over time.
SECTION 2.     DEFINITIONS.
 shall mean any corporation or other entity (other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) in which the Company directly or indirectly owns at least twenty percent (20%) of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of such entity or at least twenty percent (20%) of the ownership interests in such entity.
AFFILIATE
 shall mean a grant or award under the Plan, as evidenced in a written document delivered to a Participant as provided in Section 12(b).
AWARD
 shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
BOARD
 shall mean (i) the willful failure by the Participant to perform substantially the Participants duties as an employee of the Company (other than due to physical or mental illness) after reasonable notice to the Participant, (ii) the Participants engagement in serious misconduct that is injurious to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, (iii) the Participants conviction of, or entrance of a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony, (iv) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant or agreement not to compete with the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate or (v) the breach by the Participant of his or her duty of loyalty to the Company which shall include, without limitation, (A) any disclosure by the Participant of any confidential information pertaining to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, (B) any harmful interference by the Participant in the business or operations of the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate, (C) any attempt by the Participant directly or indirectly to induce any employee, insurance agent, insurance broker or broker-dealer of the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate to be employed or perform services elsewhere, (D) any attempt by the Participant directly or indirectly to solicit the trade of any customer or supplier, or prospective customer or supplier, of the Company or (E) any breach or violation of the Companys Code of Conduct.
CAUSE
 shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
CODE
 shall mean a committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan, which shall consist of at least three directors of the Company chosen by the Board each of whom has satisfied such criteria for independence as the Board may establish and such additional regulatory or listing requirements as the Board may determine to be applicable or appropriate.
COMMITTEE
 shall mean the common shares, $.01 par value, of the Company.
COMMON STOCK
 shall mean Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation.
COMPANY
 shall mean each employee of the Company, its Subsidiaries or its Affiliates, but shall not include directors who are not employees of such entities. Any individual the Company
ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE
 
1
 
 
 
 
designates as, or otherwise determines to be, an independent contractor shall not be considered an Eligible Employee, and such designation or determination shall govern regardless of whether such individual is ultimately determined to be an employee pursuant to the Code or any other applicable law.
 
 shall mean, for purposes of determining whether a termination of employment has occurred under the Plan, continuous and regular salaried employment with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, which shall include (unless the Committee shall otherwise determine) any period of paid time off, any approved leave of absence or any salary continuation or severance pay period and, at the discretion of the Committee, may include service with any former Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company. For this purpose, regular salaried employment means scheduled employment of at least 20 hours per week.
EMPLOYMENT
 shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
EXCHANGE ACT
 shall mean those persons who are officers of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-l(f) of the Exchange Act.
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 shall mean on any date, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported by the Consolidated Tape of New York Stock Exchange Listed Shares on such date, or, if no shares were traded on such Exchange on such date, on the next date on which the Common Stock is traded on such Exchange.
FAIR MARKET VALUE
 shall mean any stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, offering to purchase Common Stock at a price substantially below fair market value, or other similar event.
FUNDAMENTAL CORPORATE EVENT
 shall mean an Award of Common Stock granted under Section 7 which may become vested and nonforfeitable upon the passage of time and/or the attainment, in whole or in part, of performance objectives determined by the Committee.
INCENTIVE STOCK
 shall mean an option which is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION
 shall mean an Award of a contractual right granted under Section 7 to receive Common Stock (or, at the discretion of the Committee, cash based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock) which may become vested and nonforfeitable upon either the passage of time and/or the attainment, in whole or in part, of performance objectives determined by the Committee.
INCENTIVE UNIT
 shall mean an Option which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION
 shall mean the right granted under Section 5 to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock specified by the Committee, at a price and for the term fixed by the Committee in accordance with the Plan and subject to any other limitations and restrictions as this Plan and the Committee shall impose, and shall include both Incentive Stock Options and Nonstatutory Stock Options.
OPTION
 shall mean any right granted under Section 8.
OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARD
 shall mean an Eligible Employee who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan and any recipient of a Substitute Award.
PARTICIPANT
 shall mean the Aetna Inc. 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, described herein, and as may be amended from time to time.
PLAN
 shall mean the period during which a grant of Incentive Stock or Incentive Units is subject to forfeiture.
RESTRICTED PERIOD
 shall mean Section 409A of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.
SECTION 409A
 or  shall mean a right granted under Section 6.
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT
SAR
 
2
 
 
 
 shall mean any entity of which the Company possesses directly or indirectly fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such entity.
SUBSIDIARY
 shall mean an Award granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, an outstanding award previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines.
SUBSTITUTE AWARD
SECTION 3.     ADMINISTRATION.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall have the responsibility of construing and interpreting the Plan and of establishing and amending such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the Plan. Any decision or action taken or to be taken by the Committee, arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of the Plan and of its rules and regulations, shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, be within its absolute discretion (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) and shall be conclusive and binding upon all Participants and any person claiming under or through any Participant.
Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Committee by the Plan, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards, if any, to be granted to an Eligible Employee; (iii) determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances, cash, Common Stock, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan (including authorizing another committee of the Board to designate Participants or make Awards under the Plan within limits prescribed by the Committee).
Except with respect to any action or adjustment taken in connection with a Fundamental Corporate Event, any amendment or action that would, directly or indirectly, reduce the exercise price of any outstanding option or SAR previously granted under the Plan, including through an exchange or cancellation of awards for cash or other awards, shall be subject to the approval of the Companys shareholders.
SECTION 4.     SHARES AVAILABLE FOR
AWARDS.
(a)   The maximum number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which Awards may be made under the Plan shall be a total of  shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock may be made available from the authorized but unissued shares of the Company or from shares held in the Companys treasury and not reserved for some other purpose. In the event that any Award is paid solely in cash, no shares shall be deducted from the number of shares available for issuance by reason of such Award. Shares of Common Stock subject to Awards that are forfeited, terminated, canceled or settled, in whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock under the Plan will again be available for Awards under the Plan, as will shares of Common Stock tendered (either actually or by attestation) to the Company in satisfaction or partial satisfaction of the exercise price of any Award under the Plan, and shares withheld by the Company to pay applicable withholding in accordance with Section 12.
Shares Available for Issuance.
15,750,000
(b)   In the event that the Committee shall determine that any Fundamental Corporate Event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment is required to preserve, or to prevent enlargement of, the benefits or potential benefits made available under this Plan, then the
Adjustment for Corporate Transactions.
 
3
 
 
 
 
Committee shall, in such manner as the Committee may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares which thereafter may be awarded or optioned and sold or made the subject of Awards under the Plan, (ii) the number and kinds of shares subject to outstanding Awards and (iii) the grant, exercise or conversion price with respect to any of the foregoing. Additionally, the Committee may make provisions for a cash payment to a Participant or a person who has an outstanding Award; provided, however, that to the extent such an Award constitutes deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A, no such provision for a cash payment shall change the timing of payment of such Award unless such change is permitted under Section 409A. However, the number of shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
SECTION 5.     STOCK OPTIONS.
(a)   Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to grant Options to an Eligible Employee and to determine (i) the number of shares to be covered by each Option, (ii) subject to Section 5(b), the exercise price of the Option and (iii) the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Committee grant any Participant Options (i) for more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock in respect of any year in which the Plan is in effect, as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Section 4(b) or (ii) with a term of exceeding 10 years. In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and comply with Section 422 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
Grant.
(b)   Except in the case of a Substitute Award, the exercise price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant.
Exercise Price.
(c)   Each Option shall be exercised at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify at the time of the applicable Award or thereafter. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made to assure full payment of the exercise price therefor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, payment of the exercise price may be made in cash or its equivalent or, if and to the extent permitted by the Committee, by exchanging shares of Common Stock owned by the optionee (which are not the subject of any pledge or other security interest or which, in the case of Incentive Stock, are fully vested) either actually or by attestation, or by a combination of the foregoing, provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of such tender, is at least equal to such exercise price.
Exercise.
(d)   The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an Eligible Employee during any calendar year (counting Incentive Stock Options under this Plan and under any other stock option plan of the Company or a subsidiary) shall not exceed $100,000. If an Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option is granted to an Eligible Employee and the Option may not be treated in whole or in part as an Incentive Stock Option pursuant to the $100,000 limitation, the Option shall be treated as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent it may be so treated under the limitation and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option as to the remainder. For purposes of determining whether an Incentive Stock Option would cause the limitation to be exceeded, Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order granted. The annual limit set forth above shall not apply to Nonstatutory Stock Options.
Incentive Stock Option Annual Limit.
SECTION 6.     STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.
(a)   The Committee shall have the authority to grant Stock Appreciation Rights in tandem with an Option, in addition to an Option, or freestanding and unrelated to an Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Committee grant any Participant Stock Appreciation Rights (i) for more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock in respect of any year in which the Plan is in effect, as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Section 4(b), and (ii) with a term exceeding 10 years (or the term of the underlying Incentive Stock Option in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
4
 
 
 
 
granted in tandem with an Incentive Stock Option). Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with an Option may be granted either at the same time as the Option or at a later time.
(b)   The exercise price of a Stock Appreciation Right shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Stock Appreciation Right was granted; provided that if a Stock Appreciation Right is granted retroactively in tandem with or in substitution for an Option, the exercise price may be the exercise price of the Option to which it is related.
Exercise Price.
(c)   A Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle the Participant to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the base price thereof. The Committee shall determine the time or times at which or the event or events (including, without limitation, a change of control) upon which a Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised in whole or in part, the method of exercise and whether such Stock Appreciation Right shall be settled in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock; , , that unless otherwise specified by the Committee at or after grant, a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option shall be exercisable at the same time or times as the related Option is exercisable.
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights.
provided
however
SECTION 7.     INCENTIVE AWARDS.
(a)   Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to grant time vesting and/or performance vesting Incentive Stock or Incentive Units to any Eligible Employee and to determine (i) the number of shares of Incentive Stock and/or the number of Incentive Units to be granted to each Participant and (ii) the other terms and conditions of such Awards; provided that, to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law, Incentive Stock shall only be awarded to an Eligible Employee who has been employed for such minimum period of time as shall be determined by the Committee. The Restricted Period related to Incentive Stock or Incentive Units shall lapse upon the passage of time and/or the determination by the Committee that the performance objectives established by the Committee have been attained, in whole or in part. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to any performance-based Awards of Incentive Stock and/or Incentive Units (whether payable in cash or shares) granted to an Executive Officer with respect to any year in which the Plan is in effect shall not exceed 2,000,000 shares, as such number may be adjusted pursuant to Section 4(b). If the award is intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the performance objectives with respect to an Award made to an Executive Officer shall be related to at least one of the following criteria, which may be determined solely by reference to the performance of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate (or any business unit thereof) or based on comparative performance relative to other companies: (i) net income; (ii) earnings before income taxes; (iii) earnings per share; (iv) return on shareholders equity; (v) expense management; (vi) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product; (vii) ratio of claims to revenues; (viii) revenue growth; (ix) earnings growth; (x) total shareholder return; (xi) cash flow; (xii) return on assets; (xiii) pretax operating income; (xiv) net economic profit (operating earnings minus a charge for capital); (xv) customer satisfaction; (xvi) provider satisfaction; (xvii) employee satisfaction; (xviii) quality of networks; (xix) strategic innovation or (xx) any combination of the foregoing.
Incentive Stock and Incentive Units.
SECTION 8.     OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS.
The Committee shall have authority to grant to eligible Employees an Other Stock-Based Award, which shall consist of any right which is (i) not an Award described in Sections 5 through 7 above and (ii) an Award of Common Stock or an Award denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Common Stock), as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan; provided that any such rights must comply, to the extent deemed desirable by the Committee, with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act and applicable law. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock-Based Award.
 
5
 
 
 
SECTION 9.     DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND
EQUIVALENTS.
The Committee may provide that any Award shall include dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, Common Stock, securities or other property on a current or deferred basis, including payment contingencies provided, however, in no event shall any such dividend or dividend equivalent become payable prior to the date on which an award is vested in accordance with its terms. The preceding sentence to the contrary not withstanding, no dividends or dividend equivalents will be payable on options or stock appreciation rights.
SECTION 10.     STOCK IN LIEU OF CASH.
The Committee may grant Awards in lieu of all or a portion of compensation or an Award otherwise payable in cash to an Executive Officer pursuant to any bonus or incentive compensation plan of the Company.
SECTION 11.     DEFERRAL.
The Committee shall have the discretion to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant or of the Committee. The timing of any elective deferral shall comply with Section 409A. At the time of any automatic or elective deferral, the time and form of payment shall be established consistent with the requirements of Section 409A. If the time or form of payment is not so established, the form of payment shall be a lump sum and the time of payment shall be the date the Participant experiences a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A. Gains from the exercise of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be eligible for automatic or elective deferral.
SECTION 12.     GENERAL PROVISIONS.
(a)   The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid to a Participant in cash (whether under this Plan or otherwise) any taxes required by law to be withheld in respect of Awards under this Plan. In the case of any Award satisfied in the form of Common Stock, no shares shall be issued unless and until arrangements satisfactory to the Company shall have been made to satisfy any withholding tax obligations applicable with respect to such Award.
Withholding.
(b)   Each Award hereunder shall be evidenced in writing. The written agreement shall be delivered to the Participant and shall incorporate the terms of the Plan by reference and specify the terms and conditions thereof and any rules applicable thereto.
Award Agreement.
(c)   Unless the Committee shall permit (on such terms and conditions as it shall establish) an Award to be transferred to a member of the Participants immediate family or to a trust or similar vehicle for the benefit of such immediate family members (collectively, the Permitted Transferees), no Award shall be assignable or transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and except to the extent required by law, no right or interest of any Participant shall be subject to any lien, obligation or liability of the Participant. All rights with respect to Awards granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during the Participants lifetime only by such Participant or, if applicable, the Permitted Transferees or the Participants legal representative.
Nontransferability.
(d)   The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate. Further, the Company and each Subsidiary and Affiliate expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss a Participant free from any liability, or any claim under the Plan, except as provided herein or in any Award Agreement.
No Right to Employment.
(e)   No Participant or Eligible Employee shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation of uniformity of treatment of Participants and Eligible Employees. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award, no person shall have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock to be issued under the Plan prior to the issuance thereof.
No Rights to Awards, No Shareholder Rights.
 
6
 
 
 
 
(f)   The validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of the Plan and of its rules and regulations, and rights relating to the Plan, shall be determined solely in accordance with the laws of the State of Connecticut.
Applicable Law.
(g)   The Plan shall be effective upon approval by the Companys shareholders.
Effective Date.
(h)   The Board or the Committee may terminate or suspend the Plan at any time, but the termination or suspension will not adversely affect any vested Awards then outstanding under the Plan. No Award may be granted under the Plan after May 21, 2020 or such earlier date as the Plan is terminated by action of the Board or the Committee. The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by the Board, except that no amendment may be made without shareholder approval if the Committee determines that such approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement, including any approval requirement which is a prerequisite for exemptive relief from Section 16 of the Exchange Act, for which or with which the Committee determines that it is desirable to qualify or comply; and, the Committee may amend the term of any Award or Option granted, retroactively or prospectively, but no amendment may adversely affect any vested Award or Option without the holders consent.
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
(i)   The Plan, the granting and exercising of Awards thereunder, and the other obligations of the Company under the Plan, shall be subject to all applicable federal and state laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as may be required. The Company, in its discretion, may postpone the granting and exercising of Awards, the issuance or delivery of Common Stock under any Award or any other action permitted under the Plan to permit the Company, with reasonable diligence, to complete such stock exchange listing or registration or qualification of such Common Stock or other required action under any federal or state law, rule, or regulation and may require any Participant to make such representations and furnish such information as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of Common Stock in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The Company shall not be obligated by virtue of any provision of the Plan to recognize the exercise of any Award or to otherwise sell or issue Common Stock in violation of any such laws, rules, or regulations; and any postponement of the exercise or settlement of any Award under this provision shall not extend the term of such Awards, and neither the Company nor its directors or officers shall have any obligations or liability to the Participant with respect to any Award (or stock issuable thereunder) that shall lapse because of such postponement.
Compliance with Legal and Exchange Requirements.
 
(j)   If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had not been included.
Severability of Provisions.
(k)   Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of providing a receipt therefore shall be deemed paid when paid to such persons guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge any liability or obligation of the Committee, the Board, the Company and all other parties with respect thereto.
Incapacity.
(l)   The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of this Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of this Plan.
Headings and Captions.
(m)   All Awards granted under the Plan are intended to be either exempt from the requirements of Section 409A or, if not exempt, to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A. The provisions of the Plan and any Awards granted under the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with such intent. In addition, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or an Award agreement to the contrary, the Company will not pay or accelerate the payment of any amount that constitutes deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A, in violation of Section 409A. To the extent any amount of deferred compensation as defined in Section 409A would otherwise vest and become payable upon a Change in Control or upon a disability, as set forth herein or in an Award Agreement, any such Award may vest but payment shall not be accelerated unless the Change in Control or the disability also satisfies the definition of change in control or disability as set forth in Section 409A.
Compliance with Section 409A.
7
 
 
 
 
Any amount that constitutes deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A and is payable under the Plan solely by reason of a Participants termination of employment shall be payable only if the Participant has experienced a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A, provided that if the Participant is a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A at the time of such separation from service, as determined by the Company in accordance with Section 409A, no payments shall be made before the six-month anniversary of the Participants separation from service, at which time all payments that would otherwise have been made during such six-month period shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum.
 
8

6
Exhibit 10.2
  The purpose of the Plan is to provide employment incentive through a capital accumulation opportunity, link employee and shareholder interests, and provide an opportunity for employees of the Company and its Participating Subsidiaries to purchase Common Stock through payroll deductions.
1. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN.
2. DEFINITIONS.
means the Companys Board of Directors.
Board
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
means the happening of any of the following:
Change-In-Control
(i) When any person as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and as used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a group as defined in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act but excluding the Company and any Subsidiary thereof and any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary (including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee), directly or indirectly, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time), of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding securities;
(ii) When, during any period of 24 consecutive months, the individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the Incumbent Directors) cease for any reason other than death to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that a Director who was not a Director at the beginning of such 24-month period shall be deemed to have satisfied such 24-month requirement (and be an Incumbent Director) if such Director was elected by, or on the recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the Directors who then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually (because they were Directors at the beginning of such 24-month period) or by prior operation of this paragraph (ii); or
(iii) The occurrence of a transaction requiring shareholder approval for the acquisition of the Company by an entity other than the Company or a Subsidiary through purchase of assets, or by merger, or otherwise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall a Change-in-Control be deemed to have occurred (i) as a result of the formation of a Holding Company, or (ii) with respect to any Employee, if such Employee is part of a group, within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act as in effect on the effective date, which consummates the Change-in-Control transaction. In addition, for purposes of the definition of Change-in-Control a person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities shall not be deemed to be the beneficial owner of, or to beneficially own, any securities acquired through such persons participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.
means the Boards Committee on Compensation and Organization or such other committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
means the common shares, $.01 par value of the Company.
Common Stock
means Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation.
Company
means annual base salary during a Purchase Period and does not include any bonus, severance or overtime payment, disability payment, contributions to an employee benefit plan or other similar payment or contribution.
Compensation
 
1
 
 
 
means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee. Continuous Status as an Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of (i) sick leave, (ii) military leave, (iii) any other leave of absence approved by the Company, provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety (90) days, unless reemployment upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute, or unless provided otherwise pursuant to Company policy adopted from time to time, or (iv) in the case of transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company and its Participating Subsidiaries.
Continuous Status As An Employee
means any person, including an officer, who is an employee of the Company or one of its Participating Subsidiaries for tax purposes and who is employed at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the Grant Date of an Offering (or such shorter period as the Company, in its sole discretion, may determine).
Employee
means the last day of an Offering as designated by the Committee, which, in any event, shall not be more than twenty-seven (27) months after the Grant Date.
Expiration Date
shall mean on any date, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported by the Consolidated Tape of New York Stock Exchange Listed Shares on such date, or, if no shares were traded on such Exchange on such date, on the next date on which the Common Stock is traded.
Fair Market Value
means an entity that becomes a holding company for the Company or its business as part of any reorganization, merger, consolidation or other transaction, provided that the outstanding shares of common stock of such entity and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such entity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is, immediately after such reorganization, merger, consolidation or other transaction, beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities, respectively, of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger, consolidation or other transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such reorganization, merger, consolidation or other transaction, of such outstanding voting stock.
Holding Company
means the first business day of each Purchase Period of the Plan.
Grant Date
means the grant of Purchase Rights under the Plan.
Offering
means the Subsidiaries that have been designated by the Committee or the Board from time to time in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in one or more Offerings under the Plan; provided however that the Board shall only have the discretion to designate Subsidiaries if the grant of Purchase Rights to such Subsidiary Employees pursuant to the Plan would not cause the Company to incur material adverse accounting charges.
Participating Subsidiary
means the Aetna Inc. 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a plan intended to qualify under Section 423 of the Code.
Plan
means the period of an Offering beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the Expiration Date.
Purchase Period
means rights to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan on the terms or conditions set forth herein and as determined by the Committee as provided hereunder.
Purchase Rights
means any company in an unbroken chain of companies beginning with (and including) the Company in which each company other than the last company in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other companies in such chain.
Subsidiary
  The Committee shall administer the Plan. The Committee shall have full power and authority to construe and interpret the Plan and may from time to time adopt such rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan, as it may deem best. Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties, including the Company, its shareholders and its employees.
3. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN.
 
2
 
 
 
The Committee may in its sole discretion determine from time to time that the Company shall grant Purchase Rights under an Offering to all of the then eligible Employees, provided, however, that it shall be under no obligation to do so.
  The individuals who shall be eligible to receive grants of Purchase Rights under an Offering shall be all Employees of the Company or of any Participating Subsidiary who are so employed by the Company or Participating Subsidiary on the Grant Date of such Offering; provided, however, that no individual shall be eligible to effect a purchase under an Offering if immediately thereafter and after giving effect thereto, the aggregate value or voting power of all shares of stock of the Company and any Subsidiary then owned by such individual, either directly or indirectly, within the meaning of the applicable sections of the Code and including all shares of stock with respect to which such individual holds options, would equal or exceed in the aggregate 5% of the total value or combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary.
4. PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN.
5. STOCK.
(a) The stock subject to an Offering shall be authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock. Subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11(f) hereof, the total number of shares of Common Stock which may be the subject of Offerings under the Plan shall not exceed in the aggregate 5,000,000 shares.
(b) In the event that any shares of Common Stock, which are the subject of an Offering, are not purchased, such unpurchased shares of Common Stock may again be available for subsequent Offerings.
6. NUMBER OF SHARES THAT AN EMPLOYEE MAY PURCHASE.
(a) An eligible Employee may elect to purchase through payroll deductions under an Offering a number of whole shares of Common Stock determined by the Committee from time to time.
(b) The number of whole shares of Common Stock that a participating Employee may purchase on the Expiration Date shall be determined by dividing such Employees contributions accumulated prior to such Expiration Date and retained in such Employees account as of the Expiration Date by the applicable purchase price; provided, however, that such purchase shall be subject to the limitations set forth in this Section 6.
(c) The maximum number of shares that each eligible Employee may purchase under an Offering equals $25,000 divided by the fair market value of the Common Stock on the first day of the Offering.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of the Plan, no eligible Employee may elect to purchase under Offerings in any single calendar year a number of whole shares of Common Stock which, together with all other shares in the Company and Subsidiaries which the Employee may be entitled to purchase in such year pursuant to an Offering and under any other employee stock purchase plan, as defined in Section 423 of the Code, has an aggregate fair market value (measured in each case as of the Grant Date) in excess of $25,000.
7. PARTICIPATION.
(a) An eligible Employee may become a participant in the Plan by completing a subscription agreement and any other required documents provided by the Company and submitting them in the form and manner designated by the Company.
(b) Unless otherwise determined by the Company, payroll deductions in respect of an Offering shall commence on the first full payroll period beginning on or after the Grant Date of such Offering and shall end on the last payroll period ending prior to the Expiration Date of such Offering, unless sooner terminated by the participating Employee as provided in Section 10.
8. METHOD OF PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) A participating Employee shall elect to have payroll deductions made on each payday during the Offering in whole percentages from one percent (1%) to, and not exceeding, ten percent (10%) of such participating Employees Compensation during the Offering. All payroll deductions made by a participating
 
3
 
 
 
 
Employee shall be credited to his or her account under the Plan. A participating Employee may not make any additional payments into such account.
(b) A participating Employee may discontinue his or her participation in the Plan as provided in Section 10.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 6 hereof, the Company may cause a participants payroll deductions to be decreased in respect of an Offering year to zero percent (0%).
  Unless a participating Employee withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10, his or her right to purchase whole shares in any Offering will be exercised automatically on each Expiration Date of an Offering, and the maximum number of whole shares subject to the Purchase Right will be purchased at the applicable purchase price with the accumulated contributions in his or her account.
9. EXERCISE OF PURCHASE RIGHTS.
 
10. VOLUNTARY WITHDRAWALS; TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
(a) A participating Employee may withdraw all but not less than all the contributions credited to his or her account under the Plan at any time prior to the Expiration Date of an Offering by notifying the Company in the form and manner designated by the Company. All of the participating Employees contributions credited to his or her account will be paid to him or her not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of his or her notice of withdrawal and his or her Purchase Right for the then current Offering will be automatically terminated, and no further contributions for the purchase of Common Stock will be permitted or made during the Offering.
(b) Upon termination of the participating Employees Continuous Status as an Employee prior to the Expiration Date of an Offering for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, including retirement or death, the contributions credited to his or her account will be returned to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to the Employees estate, and his or her Purchase Right will be automatically terminated.
(c) A participating Employees withdrawal from an Offering will not have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding Offering or in any similar plan that may hereafter be adopted by the Company.
11. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OFFERINGS.
(a) General:
The Offerings shall be in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve, and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Committee shall prescribe not inconsistent with the Plan.
(b) Purchase Price:
The purchase price per share will be established by the Committee for each offering but in no event will the purchase price per share be less than 85% of the lower of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date and the Expiration Date.
(c) Term of Offerings:
Each Offering shall commence on the Grant Date and terminate, subject to earlier termination by the Committee, on the Expiration Date.
(d) Employees Purchase Directions:
Each Offering shall provide that the participating Employee at the conclusion of the Purchase Period may purchase all of the whole shares purchasable in such Offering with the contributions credited to such Employees account unless such Employee shall, in the manner provided for in the Offering, notify the Company as set forth in Section 10 that the Employee does not desire to purchase any of such shares.
 
4
 
 
 
 
(e) Change-in-Control:
Upon a Change-in-Control, the Expiration Date shall be deemed to have occurred immediately prior to such Change-in-Control and, unless an Employee shall have withdrawn from the Plan as provided in Section 10, all then outstanding Purchase Rights shall be deemed to have been exercised on such Expiration Date as provided in Section 9.
(f) Adjustments:
In the event that the Committee shall determine that any stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, offering to purchase Common Stock at a price substantially below Fair Market Value, or other similar event affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment is required in order to preserve or prevent an enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Plan, then the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, and in such manner as the Committee may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (1) the number and kind of shares which thereafter may be made the subject of Offerings under the Plan, (2) the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Offerings and (3) the purchase price with respect to any of the foregoing and/or, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to a person who has outstanding Purchase Rights provided, however, that the number of shares subject to any such Purchase Rights shall always be a whole number.
(g) Assignability:
No rights hereunder shall be assignable or transferable.
(h) Employees Agreement:
If, at the time of the purchase of shares which are covered by Purchase Rights under an Offering, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, it is necessary or desirable, in order to comply with any applicable laws or regulations relating to the sale of securities, that the Employee purchasing such shares shall agree that such Employee will purchase such shares for investment and not with any present intention to resell the same, the Employee will, upon the request of the Company, execute and deliver to the Company an agreement to such effect. The Company may also require that a legend setting forth such investment intention be stamped or otherwise written on the certificates for shares purchased pursuant to the Plan.
(i) Rights as a Shareholder:
An Employee who has been granted Purchase Rights hereunder shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to shares covered by such Purchase Rights until the date of the issuance of the shares to the Employee. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date of such issuance. For purposes of the Plan, the Company, in lieu of the issuance of certificates, may utilize a book entry account system for recording ownership of shares of Common Stock, subject to the rules generally applicable to such system.
(j) Interest:
No interest shall accrue on payroll deductions made under or pursuant to the Plan or any Offering hereunder.
  No grant of Purchase Rights shall be made after July 1, 2016.
12. TERM OF PLAN.
  The Plan is wholly discretionary in nature. As such, the Board may, in its sole discretion, from time to time alter, amend, suspend, or discontinue the Plan or alter or amend any and all Purchase Rights or terminate any Offering; provided, however, that no such action of the Board may, without the approval of the shareholders, make any amendment for which shareholder approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement with which the Committee has determined it is necessary or advisable to have the Company comply. Subject to the limitations in this Section 13 relating to shareholder approval, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, make such amendment or modification to the Plan or
13. AMENDMENTS.
 
5
 
 
 
 
any Purchase Rights granted hereunder as is necessary or desirable to comply with, or effectuate administration of, the Plan under the laws, rules or regulations of any foreign jurisdiction, the laws of which may be applicable to the Plan or its participants hereunder.
  The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of the Common Stock pursuant to an Offering will be used for general corporate purposes.
14. APPLICATION OF FUNDS.
  The Plan and all Offerings shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to the choice of law rules thereunder.
15. GOVERNING LAW.
  The terms and conditions of Purchase Rights granted hereunder to, and the purchase of shares of Common Stock by, persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 thereunder. The Plan shall be deemed to contain, and such Purchase Rights shall contain, and the shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise thereof shall be subject to, such additional conditions and restrictions as may be required by such Rule 16b-3 to qualify for the maximum exemption from such Section 16 with respect to Plan transactions.
16. ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS OF
RULE 16b-3.


