FILE:AET/AET-8K-20110110160139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 10 and 11, 2011, Joseph M. Zubretsky, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Aetna Inc. (Aetna) will meet with investors and analysts, before and after a presentation he will provide at the 2011 J.P. Morgan HealthCare Conference (the Conference) on January 11, 2011.  During these meetings and presentation, Aetna intends to reaffirm its previously disclosed projected full-year 2010 operating earnings of approximately $3.60 per share, reflecting continued favorable commercial underwriting performance.  Additionally, during these meetings and presentation, Aetna expects to disclose the following full-year 2010 financial metrics:
1
Aetnas presentation at the Conference is scheduled to begin at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time (10:00 a.m. Pacific time).  Investors, analysts and the general public are invited to listen to this presentation over the Internet via Aetnas Investor Information link at www.aetna.com/investor.  A webcast replay will be available on that web site, beginning approximately two hours after the event, for 14 days.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  Certain information in this Form 8-K is forward-looking, including our projections as to our 2010 operating earnings and commercial underwriting performance; our 2011 challenges and opportunities; and the impact of the Medicity acquisition on our 2011 operating earnings.  Forward-looking information is based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and is subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetna's control. Important risk factors could cause actual future results and other future events to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, particularly the implementation of health care reform legislation. Health care reform will significantly impact our business operations and financial results, including our medical benefit ratios. Components of the legislation will be phased in over the next seven years, and we will be required to dedicate material resources and incur material expenses during that time to implement health care reform. Many significant parts of the legislation require further guidance and clarification in the form of regulations. As a result, many of the impacts of health care reform will not be known until those regulations are enacted, which we expect to occur over the next several years. Other important risk factors include adverse and less predictable economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad (including unanticipated levels of or rate of increase in the unemployment rate); adverse changes in federal or state government policies or regulations as a result of health care reform or otherwise (including legislative measures that would affect our business model, limit our ability to price for the risk we assume and/or reflect reasonable costs or profits in our pricing, such as mandated mini mum medical benefit ratios, eliminate or reduce ERISA pre-emption of state laws (increasing our potential litigation exposure) or mandate coverage of certain health benefits); our ability to differentiate our products and solutions from those offered by our competitors, and demonstrate that our products lead to access to better quality of care by our members; unanticipated increases in medical costs (including increased intensity or medical utilization as a result of the H1N1 or other flu, increased COBRA participation rates or otherwise; changes in membership mix to higher cost or lower-premium products or membership-adverse selection; changes in medical cost estimates due to the necessary extensive judgment that is used in the medical cost estimation process, the considerable variability inherent in such estimates, and the sensitivity of such estimates to changes in medical claims payment patterns and changes in medical cost trends; increases resulting from unfavorable changes in contracting or re-contract ing with providers, and increased pharmacy costs); failure to achieve and/or delays in achieving desired rate increases and/or profitable membership growth due to regulatory restrictions, the slowing economy and/or significant competition, especially in key geographic markets where membership is
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrated; adverse changes in size, product mix or medical cost experience of membership; adverse pricing or funding actions by federal or state government payors; the ability to successfully implement the CVS Caremark agreement on a timely basis and in a cost efficient manner and to achieve projected operating efficiencies for the agreement; our ability to integrate, simplify, and enhance our existing information technology systems and platforms to keep pace with changing customer and regulatory needs; the ability to successfully integrate our businesses (including acquired businesses) and implement multiple strategic and operational initiatives simultaneously; managing retention of key executive talent; the ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance; the outcome of various litigation and regulatory matters, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") review and sanctions, litigation concerning, and ongoing reviews by various regulatory authorities of, certain of our payment practices with respect to out-of-network providers; reputational issues arising from data security breaches or other means; the ability to improve relations with providers while taking actions to reduce medical costs and/or expand the services we offer; increases in medical costs or Group Insurance claims resulting from any epidemics, acts of terrorism or other extreme events; and a downgrade in our financial ratings. For more discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect Aetna, please see the risk factors contained in Aetna's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Aetnas Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010, each on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You also should rea d Aetnas Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 for a discussion of Aetnas historical results of operations and financial condition.
The information in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any Aetna filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information above in Item 2.02 of this current report, other than the information as to Aetnas projected 2010 results of operations and financial condition, is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.  In addition, during the meetings and presentation referenced in Item 2.02, Mr. Zubretsky will discuss the following challenges and opportunities that Aetna projects for 2011.  Aetnas projected challenges include:  lower account retention and economic attrition, no projected prior period reserve yields, normalized utilization, impact of sanctions imposed by CMS, and health care reform.  Aetnas projected opportunities include:  continued pricing discipline, expen se actions to adjust Aetnas cost structure to its membership projections, the favorable impact of previously announced changes to its pension plan, lower commission structure, medical management and quality initiatives, including provider re-contracting, and the impact of capital actions.  Mr. Zubretsky also will discuss the projected neutral impact of the acquisition of Medicity on Aetnas 2011 operating earnings and disclose that the Medicity acquisition was financed using available cash.
development, lower investment
 
The information in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be or be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any Aetna filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


