FILE:AET/AET-8K-20121107104055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
On November 2, 2012, Aetna Inc. (the "Company") executed a Pricing Agreement (the "Pricing Agreement") with Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named in Schedule I thereto (together, the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the Underwriters $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 1.50% senior notes due November 15, 2017, $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.75% senior notes due November 15, 2022 and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% senior notes due November 15, 2042 (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). The Pricing Agreement incorporated by reference the terms of an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") of the Company dated as of May 1, 2012. The sale of the Senior Notes was registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-178272) (the "Registration Statement"). The Senior Notes were offered pursuant to a prospectus dated December 2, 2011 and a prospectus supplement dated November 2, 2012. The issuance of the Senior Notes is scheduled to close on November 7, 2012.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Securities LLC have each served as our financial advisors in connection with the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with and into Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") (which is referred to as the merger). Certain affiliates of the Underwriters have committed to provide bridge financing for the merger pursuant to the terms of our $2,000,000,000 Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of September 24, 2012 (the "Bridge Credit Agreement"), among the Company, the lenders party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent"). As described under Item 1.02 below, the commitments of such affiliates of the Underwriters will be terminated following the closing of the offering of the Senior Notes.
In connection with the offering and sale of the Senior Notes, on November 7, 2012, a supplemental indenture of the Company was executed with U.S. Bank National Association, as successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee (the "Trustee"), to establish and designate the Senior Notes and the terms and characteristics of the Senior Notes (the "Supplemental Indenture"). The Supplemental Indenture was executed pursuant to the Senior Indenture dated as of March 2, 2001 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Base Indenture"). The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture.
The Underwriting Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2012, the Pricing Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report, the Supplemental Indenture, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report and the Base Indenture, which was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registration Statement filed on December 2, 2011, are each incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item 1.01.
 
On November 7, 2012, in connection with the closing of the offering of the Senior Notes, the Company sent a notice of termination to the Administrative Agent under the Bridge Credit Agreement pursuant to which the Bridge Credit Agreement will be terminated effective November 13, 2012, in accordance with the terms thereof. A description of the Bridge Credit Agreement is included under Item 2.03 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 27, 2012, which is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 1.02.
 
A copy of the opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, special New York counsel to the Company, relating to the legality of the Senior Notes, is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Current Report. A copy of the opinion of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, special Pennsylvania counsel to the Company, as to certain matters governed by Pennsylvania law, is filed as Exhibit 5.2 to this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 7, 2012
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 1.1
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
UBS Securities LLC
As Representatives of the several
Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto
November 2, 2012
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and in the Underwriting Agreement dated May 1, 2012 (the ""), to issue and sell to the Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto (the "") the debt securities specified in Schedule II hereto (the ""). Each of the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein; and each of the representations and warranties set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of this Pricing Agreement. Each reference to the Representatives herein and in the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement so incorporated by reference shall be deemed to refer to you. The Representatives designated to act on behalf of each of the Underwriters of the Designated Securities pursuant to Section 15 of the Underwriting Agreement and the addresses of the Representatives referred to in such Section 15 are set forth at the end of Schedule II hereto. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Underwriting Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Company
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
Designated Securities
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Underwriting Agreement incorporated herein by reference, the Company agrees to issue and to sell to each of the Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the time and place and at the purchase price to the Underwriters set forth in Schedule II hereto, the principal amount of Designated Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule I hereto, less the principal amount of Designated Securities covered by Delayed Delivery Contracts, if any, as may be specified in Schedule II hereto.
The Company further represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each of the Underwriters, as of the date hereof and as of the Time of Delivery for the Designated Securities, that the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of August 19, 2012 (as heretofore amended, the "Merger Agreement") among the Company, Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. ("Merger Subsidiary"), and Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of, the Company and Merger Subsidiary enforceable against the Company and Merger Subsidiary in accordance with its terms. The Merger Agreement conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us counterparts hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you, on behalf of each of the Underwriters,
this letter and such acceptance hereof, including the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement between each of the Underwriters and the Company. It is understood that your acceptance of this letter on behalf of each of the Underwriters is or will be pursuant to the authority set forth in a form of Agreement among Underwriters, the form of which shall be submitted to the Company for examination upon request.
Accepted as of the date hereof:
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
UBS Securities LLC
On behalf of each of the Underwriters
 
 
TITLE OF DESIGNATED SECURITIES:
1.50% Senior Notes due November 15, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the "")
2017 Notes
2.75% Senior Notes due November 15, 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the "")
2022 Notes
4.125% Senior Notes due November 15, 2042 (hereinafter referred to as the "", and together with the 2017 Notes and the 2022 Notes, the "")
2042 Notes
Notes
AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
2017 Notes: $500,000,000
2022 Notes: $1,000,000,000
2042 Notes: $500,000,000
PRICE TO PUBLIC:
99.519% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
98.309% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
98.457% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2042 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
PURCHASE PRICE BY UNDERWRITERS:
98.919% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
97.659% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
97.582% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2042 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from November 7, 2012
SPECIFIED FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE:
Immediately available funds delivered to the bank account(s) specified in the cross-receipt to the Underwriters
INDENTURE:
Senior Indenture dated as of March 2, 2001, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture to be dated on or prior to November 7, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "").
Base Indenture
Indenture
MATURITY:
November 15, 2017 for the 2017 Notes
November 15, 2022 for the 2022 Notes
November 15, 2042 for the 2042 Notes
INTEREST RATE:
1.50% per annum for the 2017 Notes
2.75% per annum for the 2022 Notes
4.125% per annum for the 2042 Notes
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES:
With respect to the 2017 Notes, each May 15 and November 15, beginning May 15, 2013.
With respect to the 2022 Notes, each May 15 and November 15, beginning May 15, 2013.
With respect to the 2042 Notes, each May 15 and November 15, beginning May 15, 2013.
In any case where any interest payment date is not a Business Day, then payment of interest may be made on the next succeeding Business Day without any additional amount being payable in respect of any delay.
REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
Optional Redemption
2017 Notes
At any time prior to October 15, 2017 (one month prior to the maturity date of the 2017 Notes), the 2017 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
At any time on or after October 15, 2017 (one month prior to the maturity date of the 2017 Notes), the 2017 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
2022 Notes
At any time prior to August 15, 2022 (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2022 Notes), the 2022 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
At any time on or after August 15, 2022 (three months prior to the maturity date of the 2022 Notes), the 2022 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2022 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
2042 Notes
At any time prior to May 15, 2042 (six months prior to the maturity date of the 2042 Notes), the 2042 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
At any time on or after May 15, 2042 (six months prior to the maturity date of the 2042 Notes), the 2042 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2042 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the date of redemption.
Certain Definitions
"" means, with respect to any redemption date for any portion of the Notes of a series,
Treasury Rate
 
 
The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes of the series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes of such series to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any redemption date for any Notes of a series, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations (as defined below) obtained.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means each of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Securities LLC. If any Reference Treasury Dealer ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer for that dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice; Interest
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of Notes of the series to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes of the series or the portions of the Notes of the series called for redemption on and after the redemption date.
Special Mandatory Redemption
If the merger (as defined below) has not been completed by November 19, 2013 (or such later date to which the End Date (as defined in the agreement and plan of merger, dated August 19, 2012, among the Company, Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") (as amended, the "merger agreement")) may be extended by agreement between the Company and Coventry, as described below) or if, prior to such date, the merger agreement is terminated, then the Company must redeem all of the Notes on the special mandatory redemption date at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance, or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, whichever is later, to, but excluding, the special mandatory redemption date. The "special mandatory redemption date" means the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the transmission of a notice of special mandatory redemption. The merger agreement provides that if the closing of the merger shall not have occurred on or before November 19, 2013, the Company or Coventry, as applicable, shall, if requested by the other, consider in good faith agreeing (but shall not be obligated to agree) to a further extension of the End Date. Pursuant to the merger agreement, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, the Company will acquire Coventry in a transaction valued at approximately $7.3 billion, including the assumption of Coventry debt (the "merger"), based on the closing price of Aetna common shares on August 17, 2012.
The Company will cause notice of a special mandatory redemption to be transmitted to each holder of Notes at its registered address, with a copy to the Trustee, no later than 60 days after the occurrence of the event triggering redemption. If funds sufficient to pay the special mandatory redemption price of the Notes on the special mandatory redemption date (plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the special mandatory redemption date) are deposited with the Trustee on or before such special mandatory redemption date, the Notes will cease to bear interest on and after the special mandatory redemption date.
Repurchase Upon a Change of Control
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes of a series, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes of such series in full, as described under "Optional Redemption" above, the Company will make an offer to each holder of Notes of such series (the "Change of Control Offer") to repurchase any and all (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such holder's Notes of such series at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes of a series, the Company will be required to mail a notice to holders of Notes of such series describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes of such series on the date specified in the notice (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), which date will be no less than 30 days and no more than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes of such series and described in such notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes of a series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Notes of a series, the Company will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflicts.
The Company will not be required to offer to repurchase the Notes of a series upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes of such series if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases on the applicable date all Notes of such series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer; provided that for all purposes of the Notes of such series and the Indenture, a failure by such third party to comply with the requirements of such offer and to complete such offer shall be treated as a failure by the Company to comply with its obligations to offer to purchase the Notes of such series unless the Company promptly makes an offer to repurchase the Notes of such series at 101% of the outstanding principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase, which shall be no later than 30 days after the third party's scheduled Change of Control Payment Date.
On the Change of Control Payment Date for Notes of a series to be repurchased, the Company will be required, to the extent lawful, to:
 
 
 
"" means the Notes of a series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control, in each case until the end of the 60-day period following the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control; provided, however, that if (i) during such 60-day period one or more Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering the possible downgrade of the Notes of such series, and (ii) a downgrade by each of the Rating Agencies that has made such an announcement would result in a Below Investment Grade Rating Event, then such 60-day period shall be extended for such time as the rating of the Notes of such series by any such Rating Agency remains under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating and a downgrade by such Rating Agency to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating could cause a Below Investment Grade Rating Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the rating event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; provided, however, that a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (A) the Company becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (B)(x) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction or (y) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of such holding company. For purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the Company, even if the right to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors of the Company at the time of such nomination or election (either by specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Directors
"" means Fitch Ratings Inc.
Fitch
"" means a rating by Moody's equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's), a rating by S&P equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), a rating by Fitch equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agencies."
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any or all of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes of a series or fails to make a rating of the Notes of such series publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, that the Company selects (pursuant to a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be, with respect to such series of Notes.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
SINKING FUND PROVISIONS:
No sinking fund provisions
TIME OF DELIVERY:
9:00 a.m. Eastern time on November 7, 2012
CLOSING LOCATION:
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, 125 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004
DELAYED DELIVERY:
None
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF REPRESENTATIVES:
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West St.
New York, New York 10282
UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
OTHER TERMS:
The holders of the Notes will not have the benefit of clause (5) of Section 501 of the Base Indenture entitled "Events of Default."
The holders of the Notes will not have the benefit of Section 1005 of the Base Indenture entitled "Limitations on Liens on Common Stock of Principal Subsidiaries."
Time of Sale
4:16 p.m. Eastern time on November 2, 2012
Time of Sale Information
Preliminary Prospectus dated November 2, 2012
Free Writing Prospectus dated November 2, 2012
 
[intentionally omitted]
The Issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, copies of the prospectus and the prospectus supplement may be obtained from Goldman, Sachs & Co. by calling 1-866- 471-2525, UBS Securities LLC by calling 1-877-827-6444, ext. 561 3884, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC by calling 1-212-834-4533, Morgan Stanley & Co LLC by calling 1-866-718-1649 or RBS Securities Inc. by calling 1-866-884-2071.

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of November 7, 2012, between AETNA INC., a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the ""), having its principal office at 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut 06156 and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee entered into a Senior Indenture dated as of March 2, 2001 (the "", and as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, the "") providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the ""), to be issued in one more series as in the Base Indenture provided;
Base Indenture
Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, Sections 201 and 301 of the Base Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may establish the terms of a new series of Securities in an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, without the consent of any Holders, to eliminate any of the provisions of the Base Indenture in respect of a new series of Securities so established pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on September 23, 2011 and the Delegation of Authority of Mark T. Bertolini, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, dated October 25, 2012 (collectively, the ""), the Company has approved to be established three new series of Securities, designated as its 1.50% Senior Notes due November 15, 2017 (the ""), its 2.75% Senior Notes due November 15, 2022 (the "") and its 4.125% Senior Notes due November 15, 2042 (the "" and together with the 2017 Notes and the 2022 Notes, the "") as in this Supplemental Indenture provided; and
Company Resolutions
2017 Notes
2022 Notes
2042 Notes
Notes
WHEREAS, all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and enforceable instrument in accordance with its terms and to make the Notes, when executed, authenticated and delivered by the Company, the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company have been done and performed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties to this Supplemental Indenture hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01
. Definitions.
(a) Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Base Indenture.
(b) The following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Section 1.01(b):
"" has the meaning stated in the fourth recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
2017 Notes
"" has the meaning stated in the fourth recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
2022 Notes
"" has the meaning stated in the fourth recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
2042 Notes
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
Base Indenture
"" means the Notes of a series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control, in each case until the end of the 60-day period following the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control; , that if (i) during such 60-day period one or more Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering the possible downgrade of the Notes of such series, and (ii) a downgrade by each of the Rating Agencies that has made such an announcement would result in a Below Investment Grade Rating Event, then such 60-day period shall be extended for such time as the rating of the Notes of such series by any such Rating Agency remains under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating and a downgrade by such Rating Agency to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating could cause a Below Investment Grade Rating Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
provided, however
 
to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the rating event).
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; , that a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (A) the Company becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (B)(x) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction or (y) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of such holding company. For purposes of this definition, "" means capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the Company, even if the right to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Change of Control
provided, however
voting stock
"" has the meaning stated in Section 2.08(a) of this Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Offer
"" has the meaning stated in Section 2.08(a) of this Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Payment
"" has the meaning stated in Section 2.08(a) of this Supplemental Indenture.
Change of Control Payment Date
 
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Supplemental Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" has the meaning stated in the fourth recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
Company Resolutions
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes of the series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes of such series to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for any Notes of a series, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations obtained.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors of the Company at the time of such nomination or election (either by specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Directors
"" means Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Coventry
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Merger Agreement.
End Date
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute thereto.
Exchange Act
"" means Fitch Ratings Inc.
Fitch
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
Indenture
 
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a rating by Moody's equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's), a rating by S&P equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), a rating by Fitch equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agencies".
Investment Grade Rating
"" means the acquisition of Coventry by the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Merger
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated August 19, 2012, among the Company, Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry, as amended from time to time.
Merger Agreement
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" has the meaning stated in the fourth recital of this Supplemental Indenture.
Notes
"" has the meaning stated in the definition of "Reference Treasury Dealer" in this Section 1.01(b).
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means (1) Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any or all of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes of a series or fails to make a rating of the Notes of such series publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, that the Company selects (pursuant to a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be, with respect to such series of Notes.
Rating Agencies
"" means each of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Securities LLC. If any Reference Treasury Dealer ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a ""), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer for that dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Supplemental Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, including, without limitation, the Notes.
Securities
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the transmission of a notice of special mandatory redemption.
Special Mandatory Redemption Date
"" has the meaning stated in the first paragraph of this instrument.
Supplemental Indenture
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for any portion of the Notes of a series,
Treasury Rate
 
 
 
The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in respect of the Notes in the first paragraph of this Supplemental Indenture until a successor Trustee in respect of the Notes shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include such Person who is then a Trustee in respect of the Notes.
Trustee
Section 1.02Each reference to a particular section set forth in this Supplemental Indenture shall, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to this Supplemental Indenture. Each reference to a particular section of the Base Indenture shall refer to that particular section of the Base Indenture.
. Section References.
Section 2.01The Notes shall be issued as three series of Securities under the Base Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, which such series shall be known and designated as the "1.50% Senior Notes due November 15, 2017", the "2.75% Senior Notes due November 15, 2022" and the "4.125% Senior Notes due November 15, 2042" of the Company. Each series of Notes shall constitute a separate series of Securities for all purposes under the Indenture. The Notes shall be unsecured. The Notes shall be executed, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is initially limited to $500,000,000, the aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is initially limited to $1,000,000,000 and the aggregate principal amount of the 2042 Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is initially limited to $500,000,000 (except, in each case, for such Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes of the same series pursuant to Sections 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Base Indenture and except for any Notes which, pursuant to Section 303 of the Base Indenture, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered thereunder). Additional Notes of a series may be authenticated and delivered from time to time as contemplated in Section 301 of the Base Indenture; that if the additional Notes of a series are not fungible with the Notes of such series for United States Federal income tax purposes, the additional Notes of the series will have a separate CUSIP number.
. Issue of Notes.
provided
 
The entire amount of Notes of each series may immediately be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee and shall be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to or upon the order of the Company pursuant to Section 303 of the Base Indenture.
Section 2.02The Stated Maturity of the principal of the 2017 Notes shall be November 15, 2017, the Stated Maturity of the principal of the 2022 Notes shall be November 15, 2022 and the Stated Maturity of the principal of the 2042 Notes shall be November 15, 2042.
. Stated Maturity.
Section 2.03
. Notes Issuable as Global Securities.
(a) The Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, to be deposited with, or on behalf of, DTC, New York, New York.
(b) The Notes shall be in such form or forms as may be approved by the officers of the Company as provided in the Company Resolutions, such approval to be evidenced by any such officer's manual or facsimile signature on the Notes, provided that such form or forms of the Notes are not inconsistent with the requirements of the Indenture or the Company Resolutions and are substantially in the form or forms attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
Section 2.04The 2017 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 1.50% per annum, the 2022 Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 2.75% per annum and the 2042 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 4.125% per annum, which in each case will accrue from November 7, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2013, to the Person in whose name such Notes (or one or more predecessor Notes) are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the Interest Payment Date. Each May 15 and November 15 shall be an "" for such Notes, and the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date shall be the "" for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date. In any case where any Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, then payment of interest may be made on the next succeeding Business Day without any additional amount being payable in respect of any delay.
. Interest and Payment.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
Section 2.05Payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York; , , that at any time that the Notes are not represented by Global Securities, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
. Payment of Interest.
provided
however
 
Section 2.06
. Optional Redemption
(a) At any time prior to October 15, 2017, the 2017 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes being redeemed, or
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the 2017 Notes being redeemed from the Redemption Date to the date of Maturity for the 2017 Notes discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points,
, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
plus
(b) At any time on or after October 15, 2017, the 2017 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
(c) At any time prior to August 15, 2022, the 2022 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2022 Notes being redeemed, or
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the 2022 Notes being redeemed from the Redemption Date to the date of Maturity for the 2022 Notes discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points,
, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
plus
 
(d) At any time on or after August 15, 2022, the 2022 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2022 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
(e) At any time prior to May 15, 2042, the 2042 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2042 Notes being redeemed, or
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the 2042 Notes being redeemed from the Redemption Date to the date of Maturity for the 2042 Notes discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points,
, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
plus
(f) At any time on or after May 15, 2042, the 2042 Notes will be redeemable upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2042 Notes being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
(g) Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 calendar days but no more than 60 calendar days before the Redemption Date to each holder of the Notes of the series to be redeemed.
(h) Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes of the series or the portions of the Notes of the series called for redemption on and after the Redemption Date.
Section 2.07
. Special Mandatory Redemption.
(a) If the Merger has not been completed by November 19, 2013 (or such later date to which the End Date may be extended by agreement between the Company and Coventry pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement) or if, prior to such date, the Merger Agreement is terminated, then the Company must redeem all of the Notes on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date at a special
 
mandatory redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance, or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, whichever is later, to, but excluding, the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
(b) The Company shall cause notice of a special mandatory redemption to be transmitted to each Holder of Notes at its registered address, with a copy to the Trustee, no later than 60 days after the occurrence of the event triggering redemption. If funds sufficient to pay the special mandatory redemption price of the Notes on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Special Mandatory Redemption Date) are deposited with the Trustee on or before such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Notes will cease to bear interest on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
Section 2.08
. Change of Control Offer to Purchase.
(a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes of a series, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes of such series in full pursuant to Section 2.06, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Notes of such series (the "") to repurchase any and all (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Notes of such series at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes of a series, the Company will mail a notice to Holders of Notes of such series describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes of such series on the date specified in the notice (the ""), which date will be no less than 30 days and no more than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes of such series and described in such notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
(b) The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes of a series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Notes of a series, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflicts.
 
(c) The Company will not be required to offer to repurchase the Notes of a series upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes of such series if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases on the applicable date all Notes of such series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer; that for all purposes of the Notes of such series and the Indenture, a failure by such third party to comply with the requirements of such offer and to complete such offer shall be treated as a failure by the Company to comply with its obligations to offer to purchase the Notes of such series unless the Company promptly makes an offer to repurchase the Notes of such series at 101% of the outstanding principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase, which shall be no later than 30 days after the third party's scheduled Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
(d) On the Change of Control Payment Date for Notes of a series to be repurchased, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept or cause a third party to accept for payment all Notes of such series or portions of Notes of such series properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit or cause a third party to deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of such series or portions of Notes of such series properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of such series properly accepted, together with an officer's certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of such series or portions of Notes of such series being purchased.
Section 2.09
. Applicability of Certain Provisions of the Base Indenture in Respect of the Notes.
(a) The Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
(b) Section 1005 of the Base Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
Section 2.10U.S. Bank National Association shall act as Paying Agent and registrar with respect to the Notes.
. Registrar and Paying Agent.
Section 2.11The Company shall not be obligated to redeem or purchase the Notes of either series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision, or at the option of any Holder thereof, except as provided in Sections 2.07 or 2.08 of this Supplemental Indenture.
. No Sinking Fund.
 
Section 2.12The Notes shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
. Minimum Denominations.
Section 3.01This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound hereby.
. Relation to Indenture.
Section 3.02Except as expressly supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, the Base Indenture shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof, and the Base Indenture is in all respects hereby ratified and confirmed. This Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
. Continued Effect.
Section 3.03All of the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
. Provisions Binding on Company's Successors.
Section 3.04
. Certain Trustee Matters.
(a) The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.
(b) The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes or the proper authorization or the due execution hereof or thereof by the Company.
Section 3.05This Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
Section 3.06This Supplemental Indenture may be signed in various counterparts which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
Exhibit A
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO, OR REGISTERED OR EXCHANGED FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF, ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, AND NO SUCH TRANSFER MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. EVERY SECURITY AUTHENTICATED AND DELIVERED UPON REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF, OR IN EXCHANGE FOR OR IN LIEU OF, THIS SECURITY SHALL BE A GLOBAL SECURITY SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING, EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to Aetna Inc. or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
CUSIP: []
ISIN: []
 
AETNA INC., a Pennsylvania corporation (herein called the ""), which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars ($[]) upon presentation and surrender of this Security on November 15, 20[], and to pay interest thereon from November 7, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on May 15
Company
 
and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2013, at the rate of []% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 calendar days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. In any case where any Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, then payment of interest may be made on the next succeeding Business Day without any additional amount being payable in respect of any delay.
Payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Such provisions include, without limitation, provisions relating to redemption of this Security by the Company.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: November 7, 2012
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated under, and referred to in, the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under a Senior Indenture, dated as of March 2, 2001 (herein called the ""), between the Company, as issuer, and U.S. Bank National Association (as successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company), as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 7, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee (together with the Base Indenture, the ""), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $[], subject to future issuances of additional Securities pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture.
Securities
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
 
At any time prior to [], 20[], the Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
 
 
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
At any time on or after [], 20[], the Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 calendar days' nor more than 60 calendar days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed plus any interest accrued but not paid to the Redemption Date.
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for any portion of the Securities of this series,
Treasury Rate
 
 
The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities of this series to be redeemed.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for any Securities of this series, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations obtained.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
 
"" means each of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and UBS Securities LLC. If any Reference Treasury Dealer ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a ""), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer for that dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 calendar days but no more than 60 calendar days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Securities of this series to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities of this series or the portions of the Securities of this series called for redemption on and after the Redemption Date.
If this Security is redeemed in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
If the Merger has not been completed by November 19, 2013 (or such later date to which the End Date may be extended by agreement between the Company and Coventry pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement) or if, prior to such date, the Merger Agreement is terminated, then the Company must redeem all of the Securities of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date at a special mandatory redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance, or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for, whichever is later, to, but excluding, the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
The Company shall cause notice of a special mandatory redemption to be transmitted to each Holder of the Securities of this series at its registered address, with a copy to the Trustee, no later than 60 days after the occurrence of the event triggering redemption. If funds sufficient to pay the special mandatory redemption price of the Securities of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Special Mandatory Redemption Date) are deposited with the Trustee on or before such Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Securities of this series will cease to bear interest on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
 
"" means Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Coventry
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Merger Agreement.
End Date
"" means the acquisition of Coventry by the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Merger
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated August 19, 2012, among the Company, Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc. and Coventry, as amended from time to time.
Merger Agreement
"" means the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the transmission of a notice of special mandatory redemption.
Special Mandatory Redemption Date
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Securities of this series, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities of this series in full, as described under "Optional Redemption" above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of the Securities of this series (the "") to repurchase any and all (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such Holder's Securities of this series at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase (the ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities of this series, the Company will mail a notice to Holders of the Securities of this series describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities of this series on the date specified in the notice (the ""), which date will be no less than 30 days and no more than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, pursuant to the procedures required hereby and described in such notice.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute thereto (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any
Exchange Act
 
securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Securities of this series, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control repurchase provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of such conflicts.
The Company will not be required to offer to repurchase the Securities of this series upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities of this series if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases on the applicable date all Securities of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer; that for all purposes of the Securities of this series and the Indenture, a failure by such third party to comply with the requirements of such offer and to complete such offer shall be treated as a failure by the Company to comply with its obligations to offer to purchase the Securities of this series unless the Company promptly makes an offer to repurchase the Securities of this series at 101% of the outstanding principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon, to the date of repurchase, which shall be no later than 30 days after the third party's scheduled Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
On the Change of Control Payment Date for the Securities of this series to be repurchased, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
"" means the Securities of this series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control, in each case until the end of the 60-day period following the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control; , that if (i) during such 60-day period one
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
provided, however
 
or more Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering the possible downgrade of the Securities of this series, and (ii) a downgrade by each of the Rating Agencies that has made such an announcement would result in a Below Investment Grade Rating Event, then such 60-day period shall be extended for such time as the rating of the Securities of this series by any such Rating Agency remains under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating and a downgrade by such Rating Agency to a rating below an Investment Grade Rating could cause a Below Investment Grade Rating Event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the rating event).
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; , that a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (A) the Company becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (B)(x) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction or (y) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of such holding company. For purposes of this definition, "" means capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the Company, even if the right to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Change of Control
provided, however
voting stock
 
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (1) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors of the Company at the time of such nomination or election (either by specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
Continuing Directors
"" means Fitch Ratings Inc.
Fitch
"" means a rating by Moody's equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's), a rating by S&P equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), a rating by Fitch equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent under any successor rating category of Fitch), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agencies".
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any or all of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of the Securities of this series publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, that the Company selects (pursuant to a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be, with respect to the Securities of this series.
Rating Agencies
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of the Company to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Section 1005 of the Base Indenture, including, without limitation, the limitation on liens on the Common Stock of Principal Subsidiaries set forth therein, does not apply to the Securities of this series.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Event of Default set forth in Section 501(5) of the Base Indenture, including, without limitation, the cross-acceleration provisions thereof, does not apply to the Securities of this series.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 of the Base Indenture not involving any transfer.
Prior to due and proper presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture provides that the Company, at the Company's option, (a) will be discharged from any and all obligations in respect of the Securities (except for certain obligations to register the transfer or exchange of Securities, replace stolen, lost or mutilated Securities, maintain paying agencies and hold moneys for payment in trust) or (b) need not comply with certain restrictive covenants of the Indenture, in each case if the Company deposits, in trust, with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations which through the payment of interest thereon and principal thereof in accordance with their terms will provide money, in an amount sufficient to pay all the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on, the Securities on the dates such payments are due in accordance with the terms of such Securities, and certain other conditions are satisfied.
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, or interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, employee, agent or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
 
November 7, 2012
The Board of Directors
Aetna Inc.
151 Farmington Avenue
Hartford, Connecticut 06156
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "") in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-178272) (the "") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), for the registration by the Company of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 1.50% Senior Notes due November 15, 2017, $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.75% Senior Notes due November 15, 2022 and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Senior Notes due November 15, 2042 (collectively, the ""). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to a senior debt indenture dated as of March 2, 2001 (the "") between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, successor-in-interest to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture to be dated as of November 7, 2012 (together with the Base Indenture, the "") between the Company and the Trustee, and to be sold pursuant to a Pricing Agreement dated as of November 2, 2012 (the "") among the Company and the several underwriters named in Schedule I thereto.
Company
Registration Statement
Commission
Securities Act
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
Pricing Agreement
We, as your counsel, have examined originals or copies of such documents, corporate records, certificates of public officials and other instruments as we have deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of rendering this opinion.
In rendering the opinions expressed herein, we have, without independent inquiry or investigation, assumed that (i) all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic and complete, (ii) all documents submitted to us as copies conform to authentic, complete originals, (iii) all documents filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement that have not been executed will conform to the forms thereof, (iv) all signatures on all documents that we reviewed are genuine, (v) all natural persons executing documents had and have the legal capacity to do so, (vi) all statements in certificates of public officials and officers of the Company that we reviewed were and are accurate and (vii) all representations made by the Company as to matters of fact in the documents that we reviewed were and are accurate.
 
 
Based upon the foregoing, we advise you that, in our opinion, when the Notes have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered in accordance with the Indenture and the Pricing Agreement against payment therefor, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and the rights and remedies of creditors of insurance companies generally, concepts of reasonableness and equitable principles of general applicability.
In connection with the opinion expressed above, we have assumed that (i) the Registration Statement became effective upon filing with the Commission and such effectiveness shall not have been terminated or rescinded; (ii) the Indenture and the Notes are valid, binding and enforceable agreements of each party thereto (other than as expressly covered above in respect of the Company); and (iii) there shall not have occurred any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of the Notes. We have also assumed that the execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and the Notes by the Company will not violate any applicable law or public policy or result in a violation of any provision of any instrument or agreement then binding upon the Company, or any restriction imposed by any court or governmental body having jurisdiction over the Company.
We are members of the Bar of the State of New York, and the foregoing opinion is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America. Insofar as the foregoing opinion involves matters governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, we have relied, without independent investigation, on the opinion of even date herewith of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, special Pennsylvania counsel to the Company, filed with the Registration Statement.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a report on Form 8-K to be filed by the Company on the date hereof and its incorporation by reference into the Registration Statement. In addition, we consent to the reference to our name under the caption "Validity of the Notes" in the prospectus supplement which is a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 5.2
 
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
UBS Securities LLC,
as Representatives of the
several Underwriters
November 7, 2012
Page 2
 
As to questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon the accuracy of certificates and other comparable documents of officers and representatives of the Company, upon statements made to us in discussions with the Company's management and upon certificates of public officials. Except as otherwise expressly indicated, we have not undertaken any independent investigation of factual matters.
The opinion in paragraph 1 concerning the corporate existence of the Company is based on a certificate dated October 26, 2012 from the Pennsylvania Department of State.
We express no opinion as to the effect on the following opinions of (a) the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, (b) any state securities laws or "blue sky" laws or (c) any insurance, insurance holding company or insurance securities laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we give no opinion as to any federal securities laws.
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications, limitations and assumptions stated herein, we advise you that, in our opinion:
 
 
 
 
 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
UBS Securities LLC,
as Representatives of the
several Underwriters
November 7, 2012
Page 3
 
 
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP may rely on this opinion as if addressees hereon for the purposes of their opinions dated November 7, 2012 and delivered to you. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a report on Form 8-K to be filed by the Company on the date hereof and its incorporation by reference into the Registration Statement. In addition, we consent to the reference to our name under the caption "Validity of the Notes" in the prospectus supplement which is a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act. We further advise you that the opinions given herein are given as of the date hereof, limited by facts, circumstances and laws in effect as of such date, and that by rendering these opinions we undertake no obligation to advise you with respect to any changes therein.
 


