FILE:AET/AET-8K-20121022172037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Aetna Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Merger Agreement Amendment
 
On October 17, 2012, Aetna Inc. (), Coventry Health Care, Inc. () and Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna (), entered into Amendment No. 1 () to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 19, 2012 (the ), previously entered into by the parties.  Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as amended by Amendment No. 1, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Coventry, with Coventry surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna (the ).
Aetna
Coventry
Merger Sub
Amendment No. 1
Merger Agreement
Merger
 
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement (prior to the execution of Amendment No. 1), Aetna and Coventry agreed to discuss the appropriate treatment of outstanding Coventry stock options with an exercise price greater than or equal to the Equity Award Cash Consideration (as defined in the Merger Agreement) (each such option, an ). Based on those discussions, Aetna and Coventry entered into Amendment No. 1, which provides that upon completion of the Merger, each Underwater Option will be cancelled.  In addition, Amendment No. 1 provides that each holder of an Underwater Option who executes a customary acknowledgment and waiver will be eligible to receive an amount in cash calculated by reference to the exercise price of such Underwater Option and equivalent to $1.00 to $4.00 per share of Coventry common stock subject to such Underwater Option.  For active employees of Coventry, such payment will also be conditioned upon such employee remaining employed by the surviving corporation or Aetna for one year following the closing of the Merger (subject to acceleration upon termination of employment due to death, disability, an involuntary termination without cause or, in certain circumstances, a constructive termination). The maximum aggregate amount to be paid by Aetna pursuant to Amendment No. 1 with respect to the Underwater Options will not exceed $8 million.
Underwater Option
 
Amendment No. 1 also amends Section 6.01(d) of the Merger Agreement to reduce the aggregate dollar value of stock units that Coventry is permitted to issue to new hires in the ordinary course of business between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby from $7,000,000 to $3,000,000.
 
The foregoing description of Amendment No. 1 and the Merger Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Amendment No. 1, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated by reference herein, and the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Aetnas Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 22, 2012 and incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of Amendment No. 1 has been included to provide stockholders and other security holders with information regarding its terms and is not intended to provide any factual information about Aetna or Coventry. The representations, warranties and covenants, as applicable, contained in Amendment No. 1 and the Merger Agreement have been made solely for the purposes of Amendment No. 1 and the Merger Agreement and as of specific dates; were solely for the benefit of the parties to Amendment No. 1 and the Merger Agreement; are not intended as statements of fact to be relied upon by Aetnas or Coventrys stockholders and other security holders, but rather as a way of allocating the risk between the parties in the event the statements therein prove to be inaccurate; have been modified or qualified by certain confidential disclosures, as applicable, that were made between the parties in connection with the negotiation of Amendment No. 1 and the Merger Agreement, which disclosures, as applicable, are not reflected in either Amendment No. 1 or the Merger Agreement; may no longer be true as of a given date; and may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material by stockholders or other security holders. Security holders are not third-party beneficiaries under Amendment No. 1 or the Merger Agreement (except with respect to stockholders right to receive the merger consideration following the effective time of the Merger) and should not rely on the representations, warranties or covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of Coventry, Aetna or Merger Sub. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the Merger Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in Aetnas or Coventrys public disclosures. Aetna acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary statements, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of material
 
 
1
 
 
information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this Form 8-K not misleading.
 
Important Information For Investors And Stockholders
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. Aetna Inc. (Aetna) has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission () a registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-184041), including Amendment No. 1 thereto, containing a proxy statement/prospectus, and Coventry Health Care, Inc. (Coventry) has filed with the SEC a proxy statement/prospectus, and each of Aetna and Coventry has filed and will file other documents with respect to the proposed acquisition of Coventry. The registration statement was declared effective on October 18, 2012, and Aetna and Coventry commenced mailing the definitive proxy statement/prospectus to Coventry stockholders on or about October 19, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF COVENTRY ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN FILED OR WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Aetna or Coventry through the website maintained by the SEC at . Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Aetna will be available free of charge on Aetnas internet website at or by contacting Aetnas Investor Relations Department at 860-273-8204. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Coventry will be available free of charge on Coventrys internet website at or by contacting Coventrys Investor Relations Department at 301-581-5717.
SEC
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.aetna.com
http://www.cvty.com
Aetna, Coventry, their respective directors and certain of their executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Coventry is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 6, 2012, and its Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on May 31, 2012. Information about the directors and executive officers of Aetna is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 9, 2012, and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, which was filed with the SEC on July 31, 2012. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC.
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein are updated Aetna and Coventry unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as of, and for the six months ended, June 30, 2012 and for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the ).  The Pro Formas were prepared in connection with the filing of Amendment No. 1 to Aetnas Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-184041) and reflect Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement and certain developments since September 21, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, and for the six months ended June 30, 2012, combine the historical consolidated statements of income of Aetna and Coventry, giving effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on the first day of each period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2012, combines the historical consolidated balance sheets of Aetna and Coventry, giving effect to the Merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2012.
Pro Formas
 
The Pro Formas and the accompanying notes are based on, and should be read in conjunction with, the following historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes:
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coventrys separate historical financial statements referred to in the preceding paragraph were prepared by Coventry and provided to Aetna. Aetna takes no responsibility for Coventrys separate historical financial statements, and Aetna is not incorporating into this Current Report on Form 8-K such financial statements. Coventrys separate historical financial statements may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C., 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference room. Coventrys separate historical financial statements contained in its SEC filings are also available to the public at the SECs web site at .
www.sec.gov
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report:
 
 
3
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
5
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER  AMENDMENT NO. 1
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this ) dated as of October 17, 2012 among Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (), Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a Delaware corporationand a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (), and Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ).
Amendment
Parent
 
Merger Subsidiary
Company
 
W  I  T  N  E  S  S  E  T  H :
 
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 19, 2012 (the ); and
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company desire to amend certain provisions of the Merger Agreement as provided for in this Amendment.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE 1
Amendments
 
Section 1.01
.  Section 1.01(b) of the Merger Agreement is amended to include:
. Amendment to Section 1.01(b)
 
Section 1.02
Section 2.05(b) of the Merger Agreement is deleted in its entirety and the following is substituted in its place:
.  Amendment to Section 2.05(b).  
 
(b)           Each Company Stock Option, whether or not vested or exercisable, with a per share exercise price equal to or greater than the Equity Award Cash Consideration shall be canceled as of the Effective Time (each, an ).  Parent shall pay to each holder of each UnderwaterOption a cash amount determined based on Exhibit A-1 attached (in each case, the ); , , that (i) any individual holding an UnderwaterOption who is an employee of the Company or an Affiliate of the Company as of
Underwater Option
 
Applicable Payment
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
the date of this Amendment shall receive the Applicable Payment only if such employee remains employed by Parent, Company or their respective Affiliates continuously through the 12-month anniversary of the Effective Date, in which case Parent shall cause such employee to be paid the Applicable Payment on the 12-month anniversary date, or if the employees employment is terminated sooner due to death, disability or an involuntarily termination without cause, Parent shall cause such employee (or such employees estate) to be paid the Applicable Payment promptly, but no later than 14 days, following the termination of such employees employment and (ii) payment of the Applicable Payment to each holder of an Underwater Option shall be conditioned upon the holders execution, by November 30, 2012, of a written acknowledgement of the foregoing payment conditions and waiver of claims with respect to the Underwater Options, in a form reasonably acceptable to Parent.  For purposes of the foregoing, any employee whose employment is terminated without cause or due to a constructive termination within the meaning of an individually executed employment agreement between such employee and the Company or an Affiliate of the Company in effect as of October 17, 2012 shall be deemed to have been involuntarily terminated without cause for purposes of this Section 2.05(b).
 
Section 1.03
.Section 6.01(d) of the Merger Agreement is amended to reduce the dollar amount appearing in clause (iii)(B) thereof from $7,000,000 to $3,000,000.
Amendment to Section 6.01(d).  
 
ARTICLE 2
Miscellaneous
 
Section 2.01
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Merger Agreement.
.  Definitions.
 
Section 2.02
. .  All notices, requests and other communications to any party to this Amendment shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given,
Notices
 
if to Parent or Merger Subsidiary, to:
 
Aetna Inc.
151 Farmington Avenue, RC6A
Hartford, Connecticut 06156
 
2
 
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, New York 10017
H. Oliver Smith
 
if to the Company, to:
 
Coventry Health Care, Inc.
6270-B Rockledge Drive, Suite 700
Bethesda, Maryland 20817
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
51 West 52 Street
nd
New York, New York 10019
 
and
 
Bass, Berry & Sims PLC
150 Third Avenue South, Suite 2800
Nashville, Tennessee 37201
Angela Humphreys
 
or to such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the other parties hereto.  All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5:00 p.m. on a Business Day in the place of receipt.  Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.
 
Section 2.03
.  .  (a) Any provision of this Amendment may be amended or waived prior to the Effective Time if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by each party to this Amendment, or, in the case of a waiver, by each
Amendments and Waivers
 
 
3
 
 
party against whom the waiver is to be effective; that, after the Company Stockholder Approval has been obtained there shall be no amendment or waiver of this Amendment that would require the further approval of the stockholders of the Company under the Delaware Law without such approval having first been obtained.
provided
 
(b)
 
No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.  The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Applicable Law.
 
Section 2.04
.  .  Except as otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment shall be paid by the party incurring such cost or expense.
Expenses
 
Section 2.05
.  .  The provisions of this Amendment shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto.  No party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Amendment without the prior written consent of each other party hereto, except that Parent or Merger Subsidiary may transfer or assign its rights and obligations under this Amendment, in whole or from time to time in part, to (i) one or more of their Affiliates at any time and (ii) after the Effective Time, to any Person; that such transfer or assignment shall not relieve Parent or Merger Subsidiary of its obligations hereunder or enlarge, alter or change any obligation of any other party hereto or due to Parent or Merger Subsidiary.
Successors and Assigns
provided
 
Section 2.06
.  .  This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of such state.
Governing Law
 
Section 2.07
.  .  Each of the parties hereto (i) irrevocably consents to the service of the summons and complaint and any other process in any action or proceeding relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, on behalf of itself or its property, in accordance with Section 2.02 or in such other manner as may be permitted by Applicable Law, of copies of such process to such party, and nothing in this Section 2.07 shall affect the right of any party to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by Applicable Law, (ii) irrevocably and unconditionally consents and submits itself and its property in any action or proceeding to the exclusive general jurisdiction of the Delaware Court of Chancery and any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware) in the event any dispute arises out of this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby, or for recognition and enforcement of any
Jurisdiction/Venue
 
 
4
 
 
judgment in respect thereof, (iii) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iv) agrees that any actions or proceedings arising in connection with this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought, tried and determined only in the Delaware Court of Chancery (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware), (v) waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same and (vi) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby in any court other than the aforesaid courts.  Each of Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company agrees that a final judgment in any action or proceeding in such court as provided above shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by Applicable Law.
 
Section 2.08
.  .  EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AMENDMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AMENDMENT.  EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AMENDMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 2.08.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
Section 2.09
.  .  This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, including by facsimile or by email with .pdf attachments, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  This Amendment shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed and delivered (by electronic communication, facsimile or otherwise) by all of the other parties hereto.  Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto, this Amendment shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other
Counterparts; Effectiveness
 
 
5
 
 
communication).  Except as expressly amended herein, all other terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  The term Agreement as used in the Merger Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby.
 
Section 2.10
.If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party.  Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Amendment so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
  Severability.  
 
 
()
Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank
 
 
6
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and for the six months ended June 30, 2012, combine the historical consolidated statements of income of Aetna Inc. ("Aetna") and Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry"), giving effect to the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna ("Merger Sub") with and into Coventry (which is referred to as the merger) as if it had occurred on the first day of each period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2012, combines the historical consolidated balance sheets of Aetna and Coventry, giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 30, 2012. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the merger, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was based on and should be read in conjunction with the following historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes:
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared by Aetna using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Aetna has been treated as the acquirer in the merger for accounting purposes. The acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuation and other studies that have yet to commence or progress to a stage where there is sufficient information for a definitive measurement. The proposed merger has not yet received the necessary approvals from governmental authorities, and under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (which is referred to as the HSR Act) and other relevant laws and regulations, before completion of the merger, there are significant limitations regarding what Aetna can learn about Coventry. The assets and liabilities of Coventry have been measured based on various preliminary estimates using assumptions that Aetna believes are reasonable based on information that is currently available. Differences between these preliminary estimates and the final acquisition accounting will occur, and those differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and the combined company's future results of operations and financial position. The pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Aetna intends to commence the necessary valuation and other studies required to complete the acquisition accounting promptly upon completion of the merger and will finalize the acquisition accounting as soon as practicable within the required measurement period in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, Accounting Standards Codification (which is referred to as ASC) 805, but in no event later than one year following completion of the merger.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been presented for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to represent the actual results of operations that Aetna and Coventry would have achieved had the companies been combined during these periods and is not intended to project the future results of operations that the combined company may achieve after the merger. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect the realization of any cost savings following completion of the merger and also does not reflect any related restructuring and integration charges to achieve those cost savings. Material intercompany transactions between Aetna and Coventry during the periods presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been eliminated (refer to and ).
Note 7. Income Statement Pro Forma Adjustments
Note 8. Balance Sheet Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 
 
See the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, which are an integral part of these statements. The pro forma adjustments are explained in
Note 7. Income Statement Pro Forma Adjustments.
 
 
 
See the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, which are an integral part of these statements. The pro forma adjustments are explained in
Note 7. Income Statement Pro Forma Adjustments.
 
 
 
 
See the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, which are an integral part of these statements. The pro forma adjustments are explained in .
Note 8. Balance Sheet Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 
 
On August 19, 2012, Aetna, Merger Sub and Coventry entered into the Agreement and Plan of Merger (which, as amended, is referred to as the merger agreement), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the merger agreement, Coventry will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna. Upon completion of the merger, each share of Coventry common stock issued and outstanding will be converted into the right to receive $27.30 in cash, without interest, and 0.3885 of an Aetna common share.
At completion of the merger, each option to purchase shares of Coventry common stock outstanding under any Coventry employee benefit plan, whether or not vested or exercisable, with a per share exercise price less than the sum of (a) $27.30 and (b) the product of (i) the Aetna closing price multiplied by 0.3885 (which sum is referred to as the equity award cash consideration and which options are referred to as in-the-money options), will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive an amount in cash, without interest and less applicable withholding taxes, equal to the product of (x) the excess of (i) the equity award cash consideration over (ii) the applicable per share exercise price of that in-the-money option multiplied by (y) the total number of shares of Coventry common stock underlying that in-the-money option. The average of the volume weighted averages of the trading prices for Aetna common shares on the New York Stock Exchange for each of the five trading days ending on the trading day that is two trading days prior to the completion of the merger is referred to as the Aetna closing price.
During the 60-day period following the date of the merger agreement, Aetna and Coventry discussed the treatment of each option to purchase shares of Coventry common stock outstanding under any Coventry employee benefit plan, whether or not vested or exercisable, with a per share exercise price greater than or equal to the equity award cash consideration (which options are referred to as underwater options), taking into account the appropriate terms and conditions of each such underwater option and decided to cancel such underwater options upon completion of the merger. Aetna has agreed to pay the holders of underwater options that execute customary acknowledgments and waivers an amount in cash calculated by reference to the exercise price of the underwater options and equivalent to $1.00 to $4.00 for each share of Coventry common stock subject to an underwater option. For active employees of Coventry, such payment will also be conditioned upon such employee remaining employed by the surviving corporation or Aetna for one year following the closing of the merger (subject to acceleration upon certain terminations of employment).
At completion of the merger, each outstanding restricted share of Coventry common stock (which represents a share of Coventry common stock subject to vesting and forfeiture restrictions) will be converted into the right to receive the merger consideration payable to holders of shares of Coventry common stock, less applicable withholding taxes.
At completion of the merger, each Coventry performance share unit and restricted stock unit outstanding under any Coventry employee benefit plan (which are collectively referred to as Coventry stock units) that, pursuant to its terms as of the date of the merger agreement, is vested or becomes vested upon completion of the merger and each Coventry stock unit held by Allen F. Wise, which are collectively referred to as cashed-out units, will be converted into the right to receive an amount in cash, without interest and less applicable withholding taxes, equal to the product of (a) the equity award cash consideration multiplied by (b) the number of shares of Coventry common stock underlying that cashed-out unit.
At completion of the merger, each Coventry stock unit outstanding under any Coventry employee benefit plan that, pursuant to its terms as of the date of the merger agreement, is not vested and will not become vested upon completion of the merger (other than the Coventry stock units held by Mr. Wise), which are referred to as rollover units, will be converted into a cash-settled Aetna restricted stock unit with the number of Aetna common shares underlying that cash-settled Aetna restricted stock unit equal to the product of (x) the number of shares of Coventry common stock underlying that rollover unit immediately prior to completion of the merger multiplied by (y) the quotient of (i) the equity award cash consideration divided by (ii) the Aetna closing price. Each such cash-settled Aetna restricted stock unit will be subject to the same terms and conditions (including service-based vesting) as applied to the corresponding rollover unit immediately prior to completion of the merger.
The merger is subject to adoption of the merger agreement by Coventry stockholders, early termination or expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act, the required governmental authorizations having been obtained and being in full force and effect and other usual and customary conditions to completion. As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, the merger is expected to be completed in mid-2013.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial statements of Aetna and Coventry. The acquisition method of accounting is based on ASC 805 and uses the fair value concepts defined in ASC 820,
Fair Value Measurements.
 
 
ASC 805 requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. In addition, ASC 805 requires that the consideration transferred be measured at the date the merger is completed at the then-current market price. This requirement will likely result in a per share equity component that is different from the amount assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
ASC 820 defines the term "fair value" and sets forth the valuation requirements for any asset or liability measured at fair value, expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on the nature of the inputs used to develop the fair value measures. Fair value is defined in ASC 820 as "the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date." This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. As a result of these standards, Aetna may be required to record the fair value of assets which are not intended to be used or sold and/or to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect Aetna's intended use of those assets. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded, as of completion of the merger, primarily at their respective fair values and added to those of Aetna. Financial statements and reported results of operations of Aetna issued after completion of the merger will reflect these values, but will not be retroactively restated to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Coventry.
Under ASC 805, acquisition-related transaction costs (e.g., advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees) are not included as a component of consideration transferred but are accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred. Total acquisition-related transaction costs expected to be incurred by Aetna and Coventry are estimated to be approximately $128 million and $45 million, respectively, of which none had been incurred as of June 30, 2012. Acquisition-related transaction costs expected to be incurred by Aetna include estimated fees related to a bridge financing commitment and agreement and estimated interest costs associated with the expected issuance of long-term transaction-related debt in the fourth quarter of 2012. Those costs are reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as an increase to accrued expenses and other current liabilities, with the related tax benefits reflected as an increase in other current assets and the after tax impact presented as a decrease to retained earnings.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect the projected realization of cost savings following completion of the merger. These cost savings opportunities are from administrative cost savings, as well as network and medical management savings. Although Aetna projects that cost savings will result from the merger, there can be no assurance that these cost savings will be achieved. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect projected pretax restructuring and integration charges associated with the projected cost savings, which are projected to be approximately $250 million to $300 million over a period of three years following completion of the merger. Such restructuring and integration charges will be expensed in the appropriate accounting periods after completion of the merger.
 
At completion of the merger, Aetna will review Coventry's accounting policies. As a result of that review, Aetna may identify differences between the accounting policies of the two companies that, when conformed, could have a material impact on the combined financial statements. At this time, Aetna is not aware of any differences that would have a material impact on the combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements assume there are no differences in accounting policies.
 
 
The following is a preliminary estimate of consideration expected to be transferred to effect the acquisition of Coventry:
 
 
Certain amounts may reflect rounding adjustments.
 
 
 
The following is a preliminary estimate of the assets to be acquired and the liabilities to be assumed by Aetna in the merger, reconciled to the estimate of total consideration expected to be transferred:
 
 
The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is determined primarily using variations of the "income approach," which is based on the present value of the future after tax cash flows attributable to each identified intangible asset. Other valuation methods, including the market approach and cost approach, were also considered in estimating the fair value. Under the HSR Act and other relevant laws and regulations, there are significant limitations on Aetna's ability to obtain specific information about the Coventry intangible assets prior to completion of the merger.
At this time, Aetna does not have sufficient information as to the amount, timing and risk of cash flows of all of Coventry's identifiable intangible assets to determine their fair value. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the development of intangible asset values, from the perspective of a market participant, include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows (including revenue and profitability); the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the asset's life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset. However, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and using publicly available
 
 
information, such as historical revenues, Coventry's cost structure, industry information for comparable intangible assets and certain other high-level assumptions, the fair value of Coventry's identifiable intangible assets and their weighted-average useful lives have been estimated as follows:
 
These preliminary estimates of fair value and weighted-average useful life will likely be different from the final acquisition accounting, and the difference could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Once Aetna has full access to information about Coventry's intangible assets, additional insight will be gained that could impact (i) the estimated total value assigned to intangible assets, (ii) the estimated allocation of value between finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or (iii) the estimated weighted-average useful life of each category of intangible assets. The estimated intangible asset values and their useful lives could be impacted by a variety of factors that may become known to Aetna only upon access to additional information and/or by changes in such factors that may occur prior to completion of the merger. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the regulatory, legislative, legal, technological and competitive environments. Increased knowledge about these and/or other elements could result in a change to the estimated fair value of the identifiable Coventry intangible assets and/or to the estimated weighted-average useful lives from what Aetna has assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The combined effect of any such changes could then also result in a significant increase or decrease to Aetna's estimate of associated amortization expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aetna and Coventry each have a Missouri Medicaid business. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information assumes Aetna will dispose of its Missouri Medicaid business at the time of the merger and continue to operate Coventry's Missouri Medicaid business. Specifically, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income reflect the elimination of the revenues associated with Aetna's Missouri Medicaid business as well as elimination of the costs specifically identifiable with that revenue. Aetna does not currently have market participant bids or other information regarding similar transactions that may be indicative of the fair value of the Missouri Medicaid business. As a result, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet reflects the disposal of Aetna's Missouri Medicaid business assuming that the book value of that business approximates fair value, and also assumes cash consideration received equal to book value.
 
This note should be read in conjunction with and Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" represent the following:
Note 1. Description of Transaction; Note 2. Basis of Presentation; Note 4. Estimate of Consideration Expected to be Transferred;
Note 5. Estimate of Assets to be Acquired and Liabilities to be Assumed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the computation of the unaudited pro forma combined weighted average basic and diluted shares outstanding:
 
 
Certain amounts may reflect rounding adjustments.
 
 
This note should be read in conjunction with ; and Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" represent the following:
Note 1. Description of Transaction; Note 2. Basis of Presentation
Note 4. Estimate of Consideration Expected to be Transferred;
Note 5. Estimate of Assets to be Acquired and Liabilities to be Assumed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not present a combined dividend per share amount. On both April 27, 2012 and July 27, 2012, Aetna paid dividends of $0.175 per Aetna common share. In addition, on September 28, 2012, Aetna declared a dividend of $0.175 per Aetna common share, which will be paid on October 26, 2012, and is not reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. On both April 9, 2012 and July 9, 2012, Coventry paid dividends of $0.125 per share of Coventry common stock. In addition, on August 27, 2012, Coventry declared a dividend of $0.125 per share of Coventry common stock, which was paid on October 8, 2012, and is not reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Coventry is not permitted to declare, set aside or pay a dividend or other distribution other than its regular quarterly cash dividend in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, in an amount not in excess of $0.125 per share of Coventry common stock prior to completion of the merger, and any future payment of Coventry's quarterly dividend is subject to future approval and declaration by the Coventry board of directors. Prior to completion of the merger, Aetna is not permitted to declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution other than its regular cash dividend in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice. The dividend policy of Aetna following completion of the merger will be determined by the Aetna board of directors following completion of the merger.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect the projected realization of cost savings following completion of the merger. These cost savings opportunities are from administrative cost savings, as well as network and medical management savings. Although Aetna management projects that cost savings will result from the merger, there can be no assurance that these cost savings will be achieved.
 


