FILE:COST/COST-8K-20061214060758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On December 14, 2006, the Company issued a press release containing its results of operations for the 12 weeks (first quarter) ended November 26, 2006. A copy of the press release is included in Item 9.01.
 
(e) In connection with the revisions to the exercise prices of outstanding stock options set forth below in Item 8.01, Craig Jelinek, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer-Merchandising, and Joseph Portera, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer-Eastern and Canadian Divisions, will receive compensating payments from the Company in January 2007 of approximately $337,000 and $107,000, respectively. The treatment of options held by them will be otherwise identical to all other affected option holders in the United States.
 
In connection with the results of the review of stock options announced by the Company on October 12, 2006, the Company will be taking actions to protect employees from adverse tax consequences. The following actions were approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on December 12, 2006.
As previously disclosed, a review of the Company's stock option grant practices from 1996 to 2003 indicated that it was impossible to determine with precision the appropriate measurement date for certain grants for financial accounting purposes. For these grants it was feasible only to identify a range of dates that includes the appropriate measurement dates, where some dates in the range were after the recorded grant date. In many instances, the exercise price of the stock option grant was less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the appropriate measurement date (the "Subject Options"). Grants of the Subject Options were made to over one thousand of the Company's employees.
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code provides that options granted with an exercise price below the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant, to the extent they were not vested as of December 31, 2004, will be subject to adverse income taxation unless brought into compliance with section 409A. Under the program approved by the Committee for employees that are U.S. taxpayers, the exercise price of all outstanding Subject Options that were not vested on December 31, 2004, will be increased immediately to the value of the Company's common stock on the measurement dates that were used for the previously disclosed balance sheet adjustments (the "adjusted price"). In January 2007, holders of the Subject Options will receive a cash payment from the Company equal to the difference between the original exercise prices of the Subject Options and the adjusted prices. The Company estimates that approximately 1,050 U.S. employees will be subject to the program. The principal amount of these payments will be recouped by the Company to the extent employees exercise the Subject Options at the higher exercise prices. Two executive officers who are members of the Board of Directors and hold Subject Options will not receive the cash payment. In addition, any employees who exercised Subject Options during calendar 2006 will be permitted to pay the Company the difference between the exercise price of the exercised Subject Options and the adjusted price. Employees who make such payments will receive a compensating payment from the Company in January 2007. The Internal Revenue Service has not yet issued final regulations under section 409A. Such final regulations could be different from the current guidance.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on December 14, 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., December 14, 2006  Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) announced today its operating results for the first quarter (12 weeks) of fiscal 2007, ended November 26, 2006.
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 increased 9% to $13.85 billion from $12.67 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. On a comparable warehouse basis, that is warehouses open at least one year, net sales increased 4%.
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 increased 10% to $237 million, or $.51 per diluted share, from $216 million, or $.45 per diluted share, during the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
In connection with the review of stock options announced by the Company on October 12, 2006, and guidance issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service on November 30, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved a program intended to protect over 1,000 employees who are United States taxpayers from certain adverse tax consequences. The program involves increasing the exercise prices on certain stock options granted from 2000 to 2003, while the Company makes payments to employees to reduce adverse income tax consequences from their options having been granted originally at prices lower than the revised prices. The Company is also examining the availability of similar alternatives for employees outside the United States. In total, the Company currently estimates that it will record a non-recurring, pretax charge to earnings of approximately $70 million (approximately $45 million after-tax) in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the twelve weeks ending February 18, 2007. The ultimate amount of that charge will depend in part upon alternatives available in other countries, which are currently under review and which may affect options granted from 1996 to 2003. Over the next few years, the Company would expect to recoup $25 million in proceeds, not subject to income taxes, from these increases in option prices; but the increased proceeds would not flow through the income statement. Thus, the real economic consequences of a $45 million after-tax charge would be significantly lower than the income statement consequences. Jim Sinegal, president and chief executive officer stated: "We do not intend for our options-holding employees to be penalized for historical issues associated with some of our stock option grants, and this program is consistent with our corporate value of taking care of our employees."
Costco currently operates 504 warehouses, including 371 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 70 in Canada, 19 in the United Kingdom, five in Korea, four in Taiwan, five in Japan and 30 in Mexico. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com and at www.costco.ca in Canada.
A conference call to discuss these first quarter results is scheduled for 8:00 a.m. (PT) today, December 14, 2006, and is available via a webcast on www.costco.com (click on Investor Relations and "Webcasts").
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care and workers' compensation costs), rising costs associated with the acquisition of merchandise (including the direct and indirect effects of the rising cost of petroleum-based products and fuel and energy costs), geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


