FILE:COST/COST-8K-20061019160510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 17, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Costco Wholesale Corp. (the "Company") approved the fiscal 2007 performance criteria pursuant to which bonuses may be paid to executive officers. Under these criteria, executive officers (other than Mr. Brotman, Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Sinegal, President and Chief Executive Officer) are eligible to receive bonuses up to 20% of salary based on the achievement of specified targets relating to pre-tax income and operational characteristics relevant to the executive's area of responsibility. (See Exhibit 10.1) The amounts of the actual bonuses are determined by Mr. Sinegal, subject to further approval of the Committee. Mr. Sinegal's employment agreement for fiscal 2007 provides for a bonus amount of up to $200,000 (representing an amount up to 57% of his base salary), at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee. Mr. Brotman's bonus is at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee.
On October 17, the Committee also approved final bonus awards for executive officers for fiscal 2006. Mr. Brotman was awarded a bonus of $200,000. The Committee did not approve bonus awards to Mr. Sinegal or Mr. Galanti. The performance of these officers would have warranted the Committee's approval of bonus awards of $200,000 and $82,000 but each officer suggested to the Committee that he not receive a bonus this year. As previously disclosed by the Company, a Special Committee of the Board of Directors concluded that there were imprecisions in the Company's stock option granting process and that these two officers had responsibility for administering that process. Because of their responsibilities for the imprecisions in the process and the resulting need for the board inquiry, these officers suggested that they not receive bonuses for fiscal 2006. The Committee acted in accordance with their suggestions.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on October 19, 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
For fiscal year 2007, executive officers (other than Jim Sinegal and Jeff Brotman) are, depending upon the individual, eligible for a bonus award of up to approximately $100,000. The final bonus amount is determined by Jim Sinegal, subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Eligibility for up to 50% of the bonus amount is determined by whether the Company has met its pre-tax income goal for the year, as indicated in the Company's internal budget.
The remaining 50% is determined by goals relevant to the executive officer's area of responsibility:
For those whose responsibilities are operational, the goals relate to sales, controllable expenses, inventory shrinkage, and pre-tax profit in their areas of responsibility.
For those whose responsibilities are primarily buying, the goals relate to sales, gross margin, inventory shrinkage, and inventory turns in their areas of responsibility.
For those whose responsibilities combine operational and buying functions, the goals relate to a combination of those described in the prior two paragraphs.
For those whose responsibilities are staff functions, the goals relate to a combination of Company-wide operational and buying goals, in addition to qualitative factors relevant to their areas of responsibilities.
To be eligible for the annual bonus, the individual must be employed by the Company at the time bonus checks are issued (approximately November 15, 2007).


