FILE:COST/COST-8K-20081209060714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On December 5, 2008, the Board of Directors of Costco Wholesale Corporation elected Mr. Jeffrey Raikes as a director to fill a newly-created vacancy on the board. Mr. Raikes was not appointed to serve as a member of any committees of the Board. Mr. Raikes' compensation for his board service will be the standard fees paid to all non-executive board members and participation in the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated 2002 Equity Incentive Plan. Additional information concerning Mr. Raikes and his appointment to the Board of Directors is included in the press release attached hereto as an exhibit.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on December 9, 2008.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., December 9, 2008  Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) today announced the election to its Board of Directors of Jeff Raikes, chief executive officer of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. At the foundation, which he joined in September 2008, Raikes sets strategic priorities, monitors results, and facilitates relationships with key partners for all of the foundation's program groups. Until August 2008, Raikes was a member of the senior leadership team at Microsoft Corporation, where he had spent over twenty-five years. As president of the Microsoft Business Division, Raikes built a strong team of leaders and transformed the Information Worker business, delivering dramatic growth in the company's business productivity line and nearly doubling revenues to more than $16 billion annually.
Jeff Brotman, Chairman of the Board, stated: "We are very pleased to welcome Jeff as a new member of our Board. Not only does Jeff bring over twenty-five years of private sector experience, he also brings his reputation as a trusted and respected leader. Jeff and his wife, Patricia, have been deeply involved in education and children's issues. In addition, they served as co-chairs of the 2006 United Way of King County Fund Raising Campaign, its most successful ever."
Costco currently operates 550 warehouses, including 403 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 76 in Canada, 21 in the United Kingdom, six in Korea, five in Taiwan, eight in Japan and 31 in Mexico. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at
and at in Canada.
www.costco.com
www.costco.ca
 
 
 


