FILE:COST/COST-8K-20081211061201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 11, 2008, the Company issued a press release containing its operating results for the first quarter (twelve weeks) of fiscal 2009, ended November 23, 2008. A copy of the press release is included in Item 9.01.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on December 11, 2008.
 
 

 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., December 11, 2008  Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) announced today its operating results for the first quarter (twelve weeks) of fiscal 2009, ended November 23, 2008.
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 increased four percent to $16.04 billion from $15.47 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. On a comparable warehouse basis, that is warehouses open at least one year, net sales increased one percent.
Comparable sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 were negatively impacted by foreign exchange (primarily in Canada, United Kingdom and Korea), as follows:
 
Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $262.5 million, or $.60 per diluted share, compared to $262.0 million, or $.59 per diluted share, during the first quarter of fiscal 2008.
According to Richard Galanti, Chief Financial Officer of Costco, "First quarter 2009 results benefited from very strong gasoline profitability when compared to last year. Results were hurt by a slowdown in non-food discretionary sales and related reductions in margins associated with these sales, primarily in the latter half of the quarter. In addition, we incurred certain pretax charges of $34.2 million, or $.05 per share, related to the mark-to-market' adjustment of the cash surrender value of certain life insurance contracts ($28.4 million charge to SG&A Expense) and the impairment of corporate investments ($5.8 million charge to interest income). Finally, our first quarter earnings were negatively impacted by an estimated $22.7 million pretax, or $.03 per share, as a result of the significant strengthening during the quarter of the U.S. dollar, as compared to the Canada, United Kingdom, Korea and Mexico currencies."
Costco currently operates 550 warehouses, including 403 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 76 in Canada, 21 in the United Kingdom, six in Korea, five in Taiwan, eight in Japan and 31 in Mexico. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at and at in Canada.
www.costco.com
www.costco.ca
A conference call to discuss these results is scheduled for 8:00 a.m. (PT) today, December 11, 2008, and is available via a webcast on www.costco.com (click on Investor Relations and "Webcasts").
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care and workers' compensation costs), rising costs associated with the acquisition of merchandise (including the direct and
 
 
 
indirect effects of the rising cost of petroleum-based products and fuel and energy costs), geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


