FILE:COST/COST-8K-20090727210308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
The Board of Directors of the registrant declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale common stock. The dividend of $.18 per share declared today is payable August 28, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 14, 2009.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on July 27, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ISSAQUAH, Wash., July 27, 2009, - Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale common stock. The dividend of $.18 per share is payable August 28, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 14, 2009.
Costco currently operates 557 warehouses, including 406 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 77 in Canada, 21 in the United Kingdom, seven in Korea, six in Taiwan, nine in Japan and 31 in Mexico. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at and at in Canada. The Company plans to open two additional new warehouses prior to the end of its 2009 fiscal year on August 30, 2009.
www.costco.com
www.costco.ca
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care and workers' compensation costs), rising costs associated with the acquisition of merchandise (including the direct and indirect effects of the rising cost of petroleum-based products and fuel and energy costs), geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


