FILE:COST/COST-8K-20101008161310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(c) On October 7, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors approved the promotion of James P. Murphy to Executive Vice President from Senior Vice President; he will continue to be responsible for oversight of the Company's international operations in Asia and Europe. Previously, Mr. Murphy held various operational positions in the Company since 1987. He will continue to report to President and Chief Operating Officer W. Craig Jelinek.
Item 8.01. Other Events
The Board of Directors of the registrant declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale Corp. common stock. The dividend of $.205 per share declared on October 7, 2010, is payable November 12, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 29, 2010.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on October 8, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., October 7, 2010 - Costco Wholesale Corporation ("Costco" or the "Company") (Nasdaq: COST) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale common stock. The dividend of $.205 per share is payable November 12, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 29, 2010.
Costco currently operates 573 warehouses, including 417 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 79 in Canada, 22 in the United Kingdom, seven in Korea, six in Taiwan, nine in Japan, one in Australia and 32 in Mexico. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com and at www.costco.ca in Canada. The Company plans to open up to nine additional warehouses in the next three months of fiscal 2011, prior to the end of calendar year 2010.
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions, including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care costs), geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


