FILE:COST/COST-8K-20100202060451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) On January 28, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Craig Jelinek as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Mr. Jelinek previously was Executive Vice President in charge of merchandising, a position he has held since 2004. He spent the previous twenty years in various positions in the Company's warehouse operations. It is anticipated that Mr. Jelinek will become a member of the Board of Directors. Compensation arrangements with respect to Mr. Jelinek's new position have not yet been determined.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is included in this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on February 1, 2010.
 

Exhibit 99.1
ISSAQUAH, Wash., February 1, 2010  Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) announced today the appointment by the Board of Directors of Craig Jelinek as President and Chief Operating Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Jelinek previously was Executive Vice President in charge of merchandising, a position he has held since 2004. He spent the previous twenty years in various management positions in warehouse operations. Mr. Jelinek will join the Board of Directors.
Jim Sinegal will continue as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Sinegal, together with Chairman of the Board Jeff Brotman, Senior Executive Vice President Dick DiCerchio and Mr. Jelinek, will form an Office of the President, through which the four will coordinate on major Company matters.
Mr. Sinegal stated: "We are excited about Craig's elevation to his new role. He is a highly seasoned retail executive, with over twenty-five years' experience at our Company and over thirty-five years' experience in the industry. We look forward to his participation in a broader range of decisions as we move the Company forward."
Costco currently operates 566 warehouses, including 413 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 77 in Canada, 21 in the United Kingdom, seven in Korea, six in Taiwan, nine in Japan, 32 in Mexico and one in Australia. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com and at www.costco.ca in Canada.
 


