FILE:COST/COST-8K-20100129154313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 28, 2010, the Company's shareholders approved the adoption of the Fifth Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, which amended the prior plan to, among other things, increase by eighteen million the number of shares available to be granted under the plan.
 
The Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale Corp. common stock. The dividend of $.18 per share declared on January 28, 2010, is payable February 26, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 12, 2010.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on January 29, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., January 28, 2010 - Costco Wholesale Corporation (Nasdaq: COST) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale common stock. The dividend of $.18 per share is payable February 26, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 12, 2010.
Costco currently operates 566 warehouses, including 413 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 77 in Canada, 21 in the United Kingdom, seven in Korea, six in Taiwan, nine in Japan, 32 in Mexico and one in Australia. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com and at www.costco.ca in Canada.
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions, including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care costs), geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


