FILE:COST/COST-8K-20111027165453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Costco Wholesale Corp. (the "Company") approved the fiscal 2012 performance criteria pursuant to which bonuses may be paid to executive officers. Under these criteria, executive officers (other than Jeffrey H. Brotman, Chairman of the Board, and James D. Sinegal, Chief Executive Officer, and Craig Jelinek, President) are eligible to receive bonuses up to 20% of salary based on the achievement of specified targets relating to pre-tax income and operational characteristics relevant to the executive's area of responsibility. (See Exhibit 10.1) The amounts of the actual bonuses will be determined by Mr. Jelinek, subject to further approval of the Committee. As previously reported, under an arrangement recently concluded concerning Mr. Sinegal's retirement, for the portion of fiscal 2012 that he will serve as Chief Executive Officer he is eligible for a bonus amount of up to $66,667, at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee. The bonuses of Mr. Jelinek and Mr. Sinegal will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on October 27, 2011.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
For fiscal year 2012, executive officers (other than Jim Sinegal, Jeff Brotman, and Craig Jelinek) are, depending upon the individual, eligible for a bonus award of up to approximately $100,000. The final bonus amount will be determined by Craig Jelinek, subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee.
Eligibility for up to 50% of the bonus amount is determined by whether the Company has met its pre-tax income goal for the year, as indicated in the Company's internal budget.
The remaining 50% is determined by goals relevant to the executive officer's area of responsibility:
For those whose responsibilities are operational, the goals relate to sales, controllable expenses, shrink, and pre-tax profit in their areas of responsibility.
For those whose responsibilities are primarily buying, the goals relate to sales, gross margin, shrink, and inventory turns in their areas of responsibility.
For those who responsibilities combine operational and buying functions, the goals relate to a combination of those described in the prior two paragraphs.
For those whose responsibilities are staff functions, the goals relate to a combination of Company-wide operational and buying goals, in addition to qualitative factors relevant to their areas of responsibility.
To be eligible for the annual bonus, the individual must still be employed by the Company at the time bonus checks are issued (November).


