FILE:COST/COST-8K-20111025204454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on the Company's common stock. The dividend of $.24 per share declared on October 25, 2011, is payable November 25, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 11, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on October 25, 2011.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., October 25, 2011 - Costco Wholesale Corporation ("Costco" or the "Company") (Nasdaq: COST) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco Wholesale common stock. The dividend of $.24 per share is payable November 25, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 11, 2011.
Costco currently operates 594 warehouses, including 431 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 82 in Canada, 32 in Mexico, 22 in the United Kingdom, nine in Japan, eight in Taiwan, seven in Korea and three in Australia. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com and at www.costco.ca in Canada. The Company plans to open up to four additional warehouses prior to the end of calendar year 2011.
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions, including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care costs), energy, and certain commodities, geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


