FILE:COST/COST-8K-20121101152810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 30, 2012, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Costco Wholesale Corp. (the "Company") approved the fiscal 2013 performance criteria for bonuses to executive officers. Under these criteria, executive officers are eligible to receive bonuses, up to $200,000 depending on the individual, based on the achievement of specified targets relating to pre-tax income and operational characteristics relevant to the executive's area of responsibility. See Exhibit 10.1. The bonus amounts will be recommended by the Chief Executive Officer, subject to further approval of the Committee, based on the performance criteria referenced above.
Also on October 30, the Board approved revised arrangements concerning the employment of James D. Sinegal. As previously disclosed, he retired as Chief Executive Officer of the Company on December 31, 2011, and was to continue his employment with the Company until February 1, 2013. In 2011, the Committee determined the compensation arrangements for Mr. Sinegal during this transition as follows: a pro rata portion of his annual salary (prescribed by contract as $350,000) until December 31, 2011 while he served as Chief Executive Officer and eligibility for an award of one-third of his normal bonus arrangement (a maximum of $66,667), to be determined by the Committee. (On October 30, 2012, the Committee awarded Mr. Sinegal a bonus of $65,022.) For the period January 1, 2012, to February 1, 2013, he was to receive a salary of $100,000 without eligibility for a bonus award. He was also awarded a grant of 8,333 restricted stock units related to this service; one-half were to vest upon satisfaction of the performance conditions (which were determined to have been satisfied by Committee in October 2012); and the remaining half was to vest at February 1, 2013, when service as an employee was to conclude. Under the revised arrangements, Mr. Sinegal's employment will continue until April 30, 2013, during which time he will receive a salary of $7,692 per month and continue to receive employee benefits and to vest in restricted stock units (estimated to be an additional 15,000 units). In addition, at April 30 he will receive accelerated vesting for all units otherwise unvested at that date, estimated to be 10,833 units.
 
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on the Company's common stock. The dividend of $.275 per share declared on October 30, 2012, is payable November 30, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 16, 2012.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are included in this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, on November 1, 2012.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
For fiscal year 2013, executive officers are, depending upon the individual, eligible for a bonus award of up to approximately $200,000. The final bonus amounts are subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee.
Eligibility for up to 50% of the bonus amount is determined by whether the Company has met its pre-tax income goal for the year, as indicated in the Company's internal budget.
The remaining 50% is determined by goals relevant to the executive officer's area of responsibility:
For those whose responsibilities are operational, the goals relate to sales, controllable expenses, shrink, and pre-tax profit in their areas of responsibility.
For those whose responsibilities are primarily buying, the goals relate to sales, gross margin, shrink, and inventory turns in their areas of responsibility.
For those who responsibilities combine operational and buying functions, the goals relate to a combination of those described in the prior two paragraphs.
For those whose responsibilities are staff functions, the goals relate to a combination of Company-wide operational and buying goals, in addition to qualitative factors relevant to their areas of responsibility.
To be eligible for the annual bonus, the individual must be in position at the end of the fiscal year and still be employed by the Company at the time bonus checks are issued (November).

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ISSAQUAH, Wash., October 30, 2012Costco Wholesale Corporation ("Costco" or the "Company") (Nasdaq: COST) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on Costco common stock of $.275 per share. The quarterly dividend is payable November 30, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 16, 2012.
Costco currently operates 612 warehouses, including 442 in the United States and Puerto Rico, 83 in Canada, 32 in Mexico, 22 in the United Kingdom, 13 in Japan, nine in Taiwan, eight in Korea and three in Australia. The Company also operates Costco Online, an electronic commerce web site, at www.costco.com, at www.costco.ca in Canada, and at www.costco.co.uk in the United Kingdom. The Company plans to open up to ten additional warehouses prior to the end of calendar year 2012.
Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For these purposes, forward-looking statements are statements that address activities, events, conditions or developments that the Company expects or anticipates may occur in the future. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, domestic and international economic conditions, including exchange rates, the effects of competition and regulation, uncertainties in the financial markets, consumer and small business spending patterns and debt levels, conditions affecting the acquisition, development, ownership or use of real estate, actions of vendors, rising costs associated with employees (including health care costs), energy, and certain commodities, geopolitical conditions and other risks identified from time to time in the Company's public statements and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 


