FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20021015092957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS.
 
On October 15, 2002, Bank of America Corporation (the "Registrant") announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2002, reporting net income of $2.24 billion and diluted earnings per common share of $1.45. A copy of the press release announcing the Registrant's results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2002 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
 
On October 15, 2002, the Registrant held an investor conference and webcast to disclose financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2002. The Supplemental Information package for use at this conference is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference in Item 9. All information in the Supplemental Information is presented as of October 15, 2002, and the Registrant does not assume any obligation to correct or update said information in the future.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 15, 2002
 

 
Investors may contact:
Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, 704.386.5667
Lee McEntire, Bank of America, 704.388.6780
 
Media may contact:
Eloise Hale, Bank of America, 704.387.0013
eloise.hale@bankofamerica.com
 
 
CHARLOTTE  Bank of America Corporation today reported third quarter net income of $2.24 billion, or $1.45 per share (diluted), up from $841 million, or $0.51 per share, reported a year ago.
 
Third quarter 2001 earnings included $1.25 billion in after-tax costs related to the exit of the company's auto leasing and subprime real estate lending businesses. In addition, the adoption of FAS No. 142 in the first quarter of 2002 eliminated the amortization of goodwill, which impacts the company's expenses and net income. Excluding goodwill amortization and exit costs in the third quarter of 2001, net income was relatively flat and earnings per share were up 6 percent.
 
Third quarter results were driven by ongoing growth in consumer revenue from such product lines as mortgage, credit card and deposits, as well as lower credit costs. These improvements offset a significant reduction in market-related revenue from trading and equity investments.
 
"We continue to benefit from our diversified business mix," said Kenneth D. Lewis, chairman and chief executive officer. "Third quarter performance was led by strong growth in consumer banking, demonstrating the progress we're making in executing our customer-focused strategy."
 
"We also are encouraged by the reduction of net charge-offs, reflecting improved credit quality in our middle-market business," continued Lewis. "Although the environment remains challenging, we are optimistic that we will continue to gain market share in our businesses and differentiate Bank of America in the eyes of our customers and investors."
 
In the third quarter, the return on average common equity was 19.02 percent.
 
Net income for the first nine months of 2002 was $6.64 billion, or $4.22 per share (diluted), up from $4.73 billion, or $2.90 per share, a year ago. Excluding goodwill amortization and exit costs in 2001, net income and earnings per share were up 3 and 7 percent, respectively, in the first nine months.
 
More
Page 2
 
Third quarter highlights (compared to a year ago)
 
Financial highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer highlights
 
 
 
 
 
More
Page 3
 
 
 
 
Revenue
 
Total revenue of $8.69 billion was relatively unchanged from the previous year.
 
Fully taxable-equivalent net interest income rose 3 percent to $5.47 billion, driven by higher securities, consumer loan and deposit levels.
 
Noninterest income decreased 6 percent to $3.22 billion. Mortgage banking income doubled, card income rose 11 percent, and both total investment and brokerage services income and investment banking income increased 4 percent. Other income also was up 43 percent due primarily to $190 million in gains on whole loan sales. These improvements were offset by lower market-related revenues as equity investments and trading account profits declined a total of $600 million.
 
During the quarter, the company realized $189 million in net securities gains.
 
Efficiency
 
Expenses were down 22 percent from a year ago to $4.6 billion, (adjusted for business-exit costs and amortization of goodwill, expenses increased 4 percent). Noninterest expense included a charge for a change in assumptions on the return for pension plan assets from 9.5 to 8.5 percent. Additional charges included costs associated with a contract termination for discontinued software licenses. The efficiency ratio was 53.19 percent.
 
Credit quality
 
Credit quality continued to be affected by the economic slowdown and uncertain market conditions, causing charge-offs to remain at elevated levels.
 
 
More
 
Page 4
 
 
Total net charge-offs decreased $84 million, or 9 percent, from the second quarter of 2002. The decline was driven by lower middle-market business charge-offs and slightly higher recoveries.
 
 
 
Capital management
 
Total shareholders' equity was $48.2 billion on Sept. 30, 2002, down 4 percent from a year ago and represented 7 percent of period-end assets of $660 billion. The preliminary Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 8.13 percent, an increase of 18 basis points from a year earlier.
 
During the quarter, Bank of America repurchased 16.8 million shares and issued 3.3 million shares following exercises of stock options. Average common shares outstanding were 1.50 billion, down 6 percent from 1.60 billion a year earlier and 2 percent from the second quarter of 2002.
 
Business segment results
 
To present comparable business segment results, earnings and expenses for the third quarter of 2001 have been adjusted to exclude goodwill amortization.
 
Consumer and Commercial Banking
 
Consumer and Commercial Banking (CCB) earned $1.58 billion, up 13 percent from a year ago. Total revenue grew 11 percent while expenses increased 11 percent. Return on equity was 34.6 percent and SVA grew 24 percent to $1.08 billion.
 
Net interest income increased 11 percent to $3.73 billion, driven by growth in consumer loans and deposits. Consumer loans grew 14 percent, primarily in residential mortgages and credit cards. Commercial loan levels declined 12 percent as companies paid down loan balances.
 
More
 
 
Page 5
 
Average deposits grew 7 percent, as new customers opened checking accounts and consumers moved assets into deposit products with greater liquidity during uncertain market conditions. Growth in consumer deposits continued to be led by increases in money market savings and checking account balances.
 
Noninterest income was up 12 percent to $2.17 billion, driven by higher consumer service charges from increased customer activity, mortgage activity, growth in new customers, increased use of debit and credit cards by customers and higher commercial account service charges.
 
Global Corporate and Investment Banking
 
Global Corporate and Investment Banking (GCIB) earned $428 million, an 18 percent decrease from last year. While revenue declined 11 percent to $2.04 billion, the provision for loan losses decreased 30 percent, partly reflecting lower loan balances. Additionally, expenses declined 1 percent. Return on equity was 15.6 percent and SVA decreased 21 percent to $107 million.
 
Total trading-related revenue in GCIB, which includes trading-related net interest income and trading account profits, was $576 million, down 29 percent from last year's results, primarily due to weaker demand for equity and interest rate products.
 
Despite the challenging environment, investment banking income increased 4 percent from last year. These results were driven by higher syndications and advisory services fees.
 
Asset Management
 
Asset Management earnings decreased 55 percent from a year ago to $72 million, primarily due to one large charge-off and lower assets under management. Provision for credit losses rose to $118 million from $16 million a year earlier. Revenue of $581 million was down 5 percent while expenses increased 2 percent. Return on equity was 11.3 percent and SVA declined $99 million to $(4) million.
 
Assets under management declined 3 percent to $271.9 billion. In an effort to increase its distribution capabilities to better serve the financial needs of clients across the franchise, Asset Management is on track to increase the number of financial advisors and relationship managers in 2002 by 20 percent.
 
Equity Investments
 
Equity Investments reported a net loss of $160 million, compared to a net loss of $83 million a year ago. In Principal Investing, cash gains were $35 million in the third quarter, offset by impairments and fair market valuation adjustments of $228 million, combined.
 
More
 
Page 6
 
One of the world's leading financial services companies, Bank of America is committed to making banking work for customers and clients like it never has before. Through innovative technologies and the ingenuity of its people, Bank of America provides individuals, small businesses and commercial, corporate and institutional clients across the United States and around the world new and better ways to manage their financial lives.
 
Shares of Bank of America (ticker: BAC), the second largest banking company in the United States by market capitalization, are listed on the New York, Pacific and London stock exchanges. The company's Web site is www.bankofamerica.com. News, speeches and other corporate information may be found at www.bankofamerica.com/newsroom.
 
Additional financial tables are available at www.bankofamerica.com/investor/.
 
James H. Hance Jr., vice chairman and chief financial officer, will discuss third quarter results in a conference call at 9:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) today. The call can be accessed via a Webcast available on the Bank of America Web site at .
Note:
http://www.bankofamerica.com/investor/
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements about the Corporation's financial conditions, results of operations and earnings outlook. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. Actual conditions, results and earnings may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from such statements include, among others, the following: 1) projected business increases following process change and other investments are lower than expected; 2) competitive pressure among financial services companies increases significantly; 3) general economic conditions are less favorable than expected; 4) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins and impact funding sources; 5) changes in market rates and prices may adversely impact the value of financial products; 6) legislation or regulatory requirements or changes adversely affect the businesses in which the company is engaged; 7) litigation liabilities, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments may adversely affect the Corporation and its businesses; and 8) decisions may be made to downsize, sell or close units or otherwise change the business mix of the company. For further information, please read the Bank of America reports filed with the SEC and available at .
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
This information is preliminary and based on company data available at the time of the presentation. It speaks only as of the particular date or dates included in the accompanying pages. Bank of America does not undertake an obligation to, and disclaims any duty to, correct or update any of the information provided. Any forward-looking statements in this information are subject to the forward-looking language contained in Bank of America's reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) or at Bank of America's website (www.bankofamerica.com). Bank of America's future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in its SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period classifications.
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
99 million common shares were repurchased in the first nine months of 2002 as a part of ongoing share repurchase programs. 17 million common shares were repurchased during the third quarter of 2002.
 
33 million shares remain outstanding under current authorized program.
 
42 million shares were issued in the first three quarters of 2002 with 3 million shares issued during the third quarter, as part of stock option plans.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bank of America has the largest active online banking customer base with over 4.3 million subscribers. This represents an active customer penetration rate of 30%.
 
Bank of America uses a strict Active User standardcustomers must have used our online services within the last 90 days.
 
1.5 million bill pay users paid over $7 billion worth of bills this quarter. The number of active bill pay users has increased 74% since the beginning of the year, driven by Bank of America's free bill pay promotion.
active
 
Currently, nearly 200 companies are presenting over 1.6 million e-bills per quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
Loans are classified as domestic or foreign based upon the domicile of the borrower.
 
 
 
 
Loans are classified as domestic or foreign based upon the domicile of the borrower.
 
 


