FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20031205101358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.         
Other Events
 
As previously announced, Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Bank of America") and FleetBoston Financial Corporation, a Rhode Island corporation ("FleetBoston"), have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 27, 2003 (the "Merger Agreement"). The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of FleetBoston with and into Bank of America (the "Merger"). On a current report on Form 8-K dated November 5, 2003, Bank of America provided certain preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial data as of June 30, 2003. The following information updates the information previously provided through the date of September 30, 2003.
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Bank of America and FleetBoston may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the merger of Bank of America and FleetBoston on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with Bank of America treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of FleetBoston will be recorded by Bank of America at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger is completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Bank of America and FleetBoston as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and for the year ended December 31, 2002. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2003 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2002.
 
The merger agreement was announced on October 27, 2003 and provides for each outstanding share of FleetBoston common stock other than shares beneficially owned by FleetBoston and Bank of America to be converted into the right to receive 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock. Shares of FleetBoston preferred stock will be converted on a one-for-one basis into Bank of America preferred stock having the same terms (to the fullest extent possible) as the corresponding FleetBoston preferred stock, except in the case of shares held by preferred stockholders who validly perfect dissenters' appraisal rights. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both Bank of America and FleetBoston.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment.
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines the historical balance sheets of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on September 30, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2002, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2002, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included for the year ended December 31, 2002 and as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2003. The pro forma adjustments included herein reflect the conversion of FleetBoston common stock into Bank of America common stock using an exchange ratio of 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock for each of the 1,052,600,000 shares of FleetBoston common stock outstanding at September 30, 2003 and $1.11 billion for the approximately 96 million shares of FleetBoston common stock issuable under outstanding stock options that will convert into Bank of America stock options. The estimated purchase price of $46.05 billion, which includes the value of stock options, is based on a per share price for Bank of America common stock of $76.88, which was the average of the closing prices of Bank of America common stock for the period commencing two trading days before, and ending two trading days after, October 27, 2003, the date of the merger agreement.
 
The merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly, Bank of America's cost to acquire FleetBoston will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including executory contracts and other commitments) of FleetBoston at their respective fair values on the date the merger is completed.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of FleetBoston at their respective fair values and represents management's estimates based on available information. The pro forma adjustments included herein may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the merger is completed and after completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of FleetBoston's tangible, and identifiable intangible, assets and liabilities as of the completion date. Accordingly, the final purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges may be materially different from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the net assets, commitments, executory contracts and other items of FleetBoston as compared to the information shown in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of the adjusted assets or liabilities.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet includes an anticipated $1.27 billion, $800 million after-tax, charge for restructuring existing Bank of America operations and merger-related charges assumed in conjunction with the merger. Estimates related to restructuring and merger-related charges are subject to final decisions related to combining the two companies. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any asset impairments or accrued liabilities resulting from the restructuring of FleetBoston's operations, as we have not completed the process of assessing desired restructuring activities. When these amounts, if any, are determined, they will be recorded as a purchase accounting adjustment under GAAP.
 
Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of FleetBoston have been reclassified to conform with Bank of America's historical financial information presentation. Discontinued operations reported in FleetBoston's historical consolidated statements of income have been excluded. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
 
Note 2  Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the merger includes the pro forma balance sheet as of September 30, 2003 assuming the merger was completed on September 30, 2003. The
 
pro forma income statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and the year ended December 31, 2002 were prepared assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2002.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of 584,509,000 shares of Bank of America common stock with an aggregate value of $44.94 billion and the conversion of approximately 96 million FleetBoston stock options with a value of approximately $1.11 billion at September 30, 2003. Common stock issued in the exchange was valued using the methodology discussed in Note 1 above.
 
Substantially all of the FleetBoston stock options vest upon completion of the merger and will be converted into Bank of America stock options. The fair value of the Bank of America options that will be issued in exchange for the FleetBoston options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock price and volatility that when changed can materially affect fair value estimates. Accordingly, the model does not necessarily provide for a reliable single measure of the fair value of employee stock options. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the Bank of America stock options to be issued in the exchange for FleetBoston stock options include a risk-free interest rate of 4.07%, a dividend yield of 4.70%, a weighted average expected life of three years and volatility of 26.57%. The three-year term was based on the weighted average expected term to expiration of these options.
 
The allocation of the purchase price follows:
 
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer
 
This current report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits hereto, contains forward-looking statements, including statements about the financial condition, results of operations and earnings outlooks of Bank of America and FleetBoston. The forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results or earnings to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, in addition to factors discussed or described in documents publicly filed by FleetBoston and Bank of America with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), include among others the following: (1) projected business increases following process changes and other investments are lower than expected; (2) competitive pressure among financial services companies increases significantly; (3) general economic conditions are less favorable than expected; (4) political conditions and related actions by the United States military abroad may adversely affect the company's businesses and economic conditions as a whole; (5) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins and impact funding sources; (6) changes in foreign exchange rates increases exposure; (7) changes in market rates and prices may adversely impact the value of financial products and assets; (8) legislation or regulatory environments, requirements or changes adversely affect the businesses in which the company is engaged; (9) litigation liabilities, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments, may adversely affect the company or its businesses; (10) completion of the merger is dependent on, among other things, receipt of shareholder approvals, the timing of which cannot be predicted with precision and which may not be received at all; (11) the merger may be more expensive to complete than anticipated, including as a result of unexpected factors or events; (12) the integration of FleetBoston's business and operations with those of Bank of America, including systems conversions, may take longer than anticipated or may be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to FleetBoston's or Bank of America's existing businesses; (13) the anticipated cost savings of the Merger may take longer to be realized or may not be achieved in their entirety; and (14) decisions to downsize, sell or close units or otherwise change the business mix of any of the company. For further information regarding either company, please read the Bank of America and FleetBoston reports filed with the SEC and available at www.sec.gov.
 
Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements were made or such earlier date as may be indicated in connection with such statements, and Bank of America undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which any such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
Additional Information About the Merger
 
Bank of America and FleetBoston will file a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents regarding the Merger with the SEC. Bank of America and FleetBoston will mail the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus to their respective shareholders. These documents will contain important information about the transaction, and Bank of America and FleetBoston urge you to read these documents when they become available.
 
You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov). You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Bank of America's website (www.bankofamerica.com) under the tab "About Bank of America" and then under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the item "Complete SEC Filings". You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from FleetBoston's website (www.fleet.com) under the tab "About Fleet" and then under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the item "SEC Filings".
 
Participants in the Merger
 
Bank of America and FleetBoston and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with this transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Bank of America and FleetBoston and information about other persons who may be deemed participants in this transaction will be included in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. You can find information about Bank of America's executive officers and directors in Bank of America's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 27, 2003. You can find information about FleetBoston's executive officers and directors in FleetBoston's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 17, 2003. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Bank of America and FleetBoston using the contact information above.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunder duly authorized.
 
 
Date:   December 5, 2003
 


