FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20031014131338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS AND REQUIRED FD DISCLOSURE.
 
On September 24, 2003, Bank of America Corporation (the "Registrant") adopted amended and restated Bylaws. A copy of the Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Amended and Restated Bylaws.    
 
On September 3, 2003, the Office of the Attorney General for the State of New York ("NYAG") simultaneously filed and settled a complaint against Canary Capital Partners, LLC, et al. (collectively, "Canary"). The complaint alleged, among other things, that Canary engaged in improper trading with certain mutual funds in the Nations Funds family (the "Nations Funds"). Specifically, the NYAG alleged that Canary engaged in activities that it characterized as "market timing" and also "late trading." Bank of America is cooperating fully with the NYAG, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and other regulators in connection with these inquiries.
Litigation and Regulatory Matters.    
 
On September 16, 2003, the NYAG announced a criminal action, and the SEC announced a civil action, against a former employee of Banc of America Securities, LLC. The complaints allege that this former employee played a key role in enabling Canary to engage in "late trading" of shares of Nations Funds and other mutual funds in violation of state and federal law.
 
Bank of America has announced that it will establish a restitution fund for shareholders of the Nations Funds who were harmed by the late trading and market timing practices of Canary. In addition, Bank of America announced that it will provide restitution for shareholders of third party mutual funds who were harmed by any late trading activities by Canary that are found to have occurred through Bank of America in the event restitution is not otherwise available from Canary, its affiliates, its investors or from any other third parties. Bank of America has also committed to return to the Nations Funds all funds management and advisory fees related to the Canary market timing agreement.
 
Bank of America has named several key leaders and advisors external to Bank of America to review mutual fund practices. These individuals will lead an independent review of Bank of America's mutual fund policies and practices, conduct a complete legal and regulatory compliance review of Bank of America's mutual fund business, and coordinate a detailed review of all technology, control, and compliance systems related to the mutual fund business, including all systems relating to sales, clearing, and derivative and brokerage operations.
 
Bank of America intends to develop new policies to eliminate all lending, derivatives, brokerage services or any other services relating to mutual fund
 
trading activity by clients known to Bank of America to engage in active mutual fund market timing not permitted by the targeted funds.
 
Bank of America has committed to no longer permit special exceptions to the market timing policies established by Bank of America.
 
The independent trustees of the Board of Trustees of the Nations Funds have retained an independent firm to evaluate the extent of any adverse monetary impact to any Nations Fund in which the Nations Funds' adviser permitted a discretionary market-timing agreement. They also announced that they would evaluate whether any additional steps are appropriate to assure Nations Funds shareholders that the Nations Funds are being managed in their best interests. In addition, the independent trustees announced that the Board of Trustees, with the assistance of the independent firm, will conduct a review of the issues relating to late trading in Nations Funds, consider the results of the review of these issues being conducted by the Registrant, and take action as appropriate.
 
As of the date hereof, a number of lawsuits have been filed against the Registrant and several of its subsidiaries, affiliates and associates in connection with these circumstances, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties, the federal and state securities laws, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as well as contractual claims. Bank of America has also received shareholder derivative actions on behalf of Bank of America alleging various claims, including breach of fiduciary duty, against the board of directors in connection with these matters. Additional lawsuits presenting similar or additional allegations and requests for relief arising out of these circumstances could be filed in the future against Bank of America and related parties.
 
During the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the Registrant recognized a $100 million charge to income in connection with these matters. The Registrant, however, cannot determine at this time the eventual outcome, timing or impact of these matters. Accordingly, it is possible that additional charges in the future may be required.
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
PRO FORMA
FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 14, 2003
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. . In these Bylaws, unless otherwise specifically provided:
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2. . If any term used in these Bylaws and not otherwise defined herein is defined for purposes of the DGCL, such definition shall apply for purposes of these Bylaws, unless the context shall clearly require otherwise.
Cross-Reference to the DGCL
 
 
Section 1. . The principal place of business of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Charlotte, County of Mecklenburg, State of North Carolina.
Principal Place of Business
 
Section 2. . The registered office of the Corporation required by the DGCL to be maintained in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
Registered Office
 
Section 3. . The Corporation may have offices at such other places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the affairs of the Corporation may require from time to time.
Other Offices
 
 
 
 
Section 1. . The annual meeting of the Stockholders shall be held each year at a date and hour fixed by the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting.
Annual Meeting
 
Section 2. . Special meetings of the Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the DGCL, may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by the Secretary acting under instructions of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President. Business to be conducted at a special meeting may only be brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Section 3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President of the Corporation, or the Secretary acting under instructions of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, shall designate any place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the place of meeting for any annual meeting of Stockholders or for any special meeting of Stockholders.
Place of Meeting
 
Section 4. . Except as otherwise provided herein or required by law, whenever Stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any,
Notice to Stockholders
 
by which the Stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Any notice to Stockholders shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder in the manner and to the extent permitted by the DGCL.
 
The written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each Stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, notice may be given to stockholders sharing an address in the manner and to the extent permitted by the DGCL. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the Stockholder at such Stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
 
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place of the adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each Stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
Section 5. . For the purpose of determining Stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or Stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution, or in order to make a determination of Stockholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date for any such determination of Stockholders, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which date in any case to be not more than 60 days and, in case of a meeting of Stockholders, not less than ten days prior to, the date of such meeting or on which such action is to be taken. If no record date is fixed for the determination of Stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Stockholders, or for determination of the Stockholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend or other distribution or any other purpose, the close of business on the day before the first notice is given shall be the record date. When a determination of Stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of Stockholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date.
Fixing of Record Date
 
Section 6. . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before the meeting of Stockholders, a complete list of the Stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each Stockholder and the number of Shares registered in the name of each Stockholder. The list of Stockholders shall be open to the examination of any Stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation, or the Corporation may place the
Stockholders List
 
Stockholder's list on a reasonably accessible electronic network as permitted by the DGCL. The list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting and be available for inspection by any Stockholder who is present at the meeting.
 
Section 7. . A majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of Stockholders. Where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding shares of such class or series or classes or series, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. In the absence of a quorum, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the approval of the majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares present and entitled to vote at the meeting, even if less than a quorum. Once a quorum is present at a meeting, it is deemed present for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum
 
Section 8. . Each Stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of Stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for such Stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
Proxies
 
Without limiting the manner in which a Stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such Stockholder as proxy pursuant to the previous paragraph, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a Stockholder may grant such authority:
 
(1) A Stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such Stockholder as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the Stockholder or such Stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such person's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
 
(2) A Stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such Stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the Stockholder. If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions
 
are valid, the inspectors or, if there are no inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
 
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to the previous paragraph of this section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
 
A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally.
 
Section 9. . Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, each outstanding share of Common Stock is entitled to one vote on each matter voted on at a Stockholders meeting. Other Shares are entitled to vote only as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or the DGCL. If a quorum exists, action on a matter (other than election of directors or the Chairman of a meeting) is approved if the votes cast favoring an action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or the DGCL requires a greater number of affirmative votes. Where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required, the approval of the majority of the votes entitled to be cast within such class or series or classes or series present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be the act of such class or series or classes or series. Such class or series or classes or series shall not be entitled to vote separately unless expressly required by the Certificate of Incorporation or as otherwise provided in the DGCL.
Voting of Shares
 
Section 10. . The directors of the Corporation shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the Shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting at which a quorum is present unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Voting for Directors
 
Section 11. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside as chairman at each meeting of Stockholders or, in the Chairman's absence, the Chief Executive Officer shall so preside. At the request of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, in both their absences, such other officer as the Board of Directors shall designate shall so preside at any such meeting. In the absence of a presiding officer determined in accordance with the preceding sentence, any person may be designated to so preside at a Stockholders meeting by a plurality vote of the Shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting. The Secretary or, in the absence or at the request of the Secretary, any person designated by the person presiding at a Stockholders meeting shall act as secretary of such meeting. The chairman of any meeting of Stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting,
Conduct of Meetings
 
including regulation of the manner of voting, the conduct of discussion, and the propriety of any proposal brought before the meeting. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the Stockholders will vote at the meeting shall be announced at the meeting.
 
Section 12. At any meeting of the stockholders, only business that has been properly brought before the meeting may be conducted. Nominations for the election of directors and the proposal of other business at an annual meeting may be made only: (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting; (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; or (c) by a stockholder entitled to vote who complies with this Section 12.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
 
A notice of the intent of a stockholder to make a nomination or to bring any other matter before the annual meeting shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the seventy-fifth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the date the Corporation commenced mailing its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after its anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the seventy-fifth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In the event of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, any stockholder entitled to vote may nominate a person or persons for election as director if the stockholder's notice is received by the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of the fifteenth day following the day on which notice of the meeting is first mailed to stockholders.
 
Any notice by a stockholder shall set forth:
 
 
 
 
 
Notice of intent to make a nomination shall be accompanied by the written consent of each nominee to serve as director of the Corporation if so elected.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 12, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 12. Nothing in this Section 12 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
Section 1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or permitted under the DGCL.
General Powers
 
Section 2. . The number of directors of the Corporation shall be not less than five nor more than 30, which number may be fixed or changed from time to time, within the minimum and maximum, by the Board of Directors. Directors need not be residents of the State of Delaware or Stockholders of the Corporation. A director of the Corporation shall at all times meet all statutory and regulatory qualifications for a director of a publicly held bank holding company and financial holding company.
Number and Qualifications
 
Section 3. . The terms of all directors shall expire at the next annual Stockholders meeting following their election. A decrease in the number of directors does not shorten an incumbent director's term. The term of a director elected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the next Stockholders meeting at which directors are elected. Despite the expiration of a director's term, however, such director shall continue to serve until the director's successor is elected and qualified or until such director's earlier resignation or removal.
Terms of Directors
 
Any director may be removed at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
 
Section 4. . Except in those instances where the Certificate of Incorporation or applicable law provides otherwise, a majority of directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or a sole remaining director, may fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship on the Board of Directors. A vacancy that will occur at a specific later date (by reason of a resignation effective at a later date or otherwise) may be filled before the vacancy occurs by a majority of directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, but the new director may not take office until the vacancy occurs.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
 
Section 5. . The Board of Directors may provide for the compensation of directors for their services as such and may provide for the payment or reimbursement of any or all expenses reasonably incurred by them in attending meetings of the Board or of any committee of the Board or in the performance of their other duties as directors. Nothing herein contained, however, shall prevent any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity or receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
 
Section 6. . The Board of Directors may designate five or more directors who shall constitute the Executive Committee of the Corporation. The Executive Committee, between meetings of the Board of Directors and subject to such limitations as may be required by law or imposed by resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the Corporation.
Executive Committee
 
Meetings of the Executive Committee may be held at any time on call of its Chairman or any two members of the Committee. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at all meetings. The Executive Committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report its actions to the next succeeding meeting of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 7. . The Board of Directors may from time to time create or eliminate one or more other committees, including but not limited to Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, and Asset Quality Review committees, and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them. Each committee must have one or more members who serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors shall periodically approve a charter describing the duties of each committee. The provisions of the DGCL and these Bylaws that govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum and voting requirements of the Board of Directors, shall apply to committees and their members as well. To the extent specified by the Board of Directors, each committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except as to the matters which the DGCL specifically excepts from the authority of such committees. Nothing contained in this Section shall preclude the
Other Committees
 
Board of Directors from establishing and appointing any committee, whether of directors or otherwise, not having or exercising the authority of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
Section 1. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw provision immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of the Stockholders. In addition, the Board of Directors may provide, by resolution, the date, time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings.
Regular Meetings
 
Section 2. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any date, time and place upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or of the Secretary acting under instructions from the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the President, or upon the call of any three directors. Special meetings may be held at any date, time and place and without special notice by unanimous consent of the directors.
Special Meetings
 
Section 3. . The person or persons calling a special meeting of the Board of Directors shall, at least two days before the meeting, give notice thereof by any usual means of communication. Such notice may be communicated, without limitation, in person; by telephone, facsimile, or other electronic transmission; or by mail or private carrier. Written notice of a directors meeting is effective at the earliest of the following:
Notice
 
 
 
 
 
Oral notice is effective when actually communicated to the director. Notice of an adjourned meeting of directors need not be given if the time and place are fixed at the meeting being adjourned. The notice of any meeting of directors need not describe the purpose of the meeting unless otherwise required by the DGCL.
 
Section 4. . A director may waive any notice required by the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the
Waiver of Notice
 
date and time stated in the notice. The waiver must be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice, and filed with the minutes or corporate records, except that, notwithstanding the foregoing requirement of written notice, a director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to the director of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting expressly objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
Section 5. . A majority of the number of directors in office immediately before the meeting begins, but in no case less than
Quorum
 1
/
3
of the total number of directors fixed by the Board of Directors, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, but if less than such majority is present at a meeting, a majority of directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
 
Section 6. . Except as otherwise provided in the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or herein, the act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Manner of Acting
 
Section 7. . The Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that in the absence or at the request of the Chairman of the Board, or if there shall not be a person holding such offices, the person selected to preside at a meeting of directors by a vote of a majority of the directors present shall preside at such meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence or at the request of the Secretary, any person designated by the person presiding at a meeting of the Board of Directors, shall act as secretary of such meeting.
Conduct of Meetings
 
Section 8. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a Board of Directors meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board of Directors. The action must be evidenced by one or more consents in writing or by electronic transmission describing the action taken, which consent or consents shall be included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records.
Action Without a Meeting
 
Section 9. . Members of the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors may participate in a Board of Directors or committee meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Participation Other Than in Person
 
 
 
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation may include a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Chairmen, one or more Division Presidents, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers, assistant or deputy officers and agents, as may be elected from time to time by or under the authority of the Board of Directors. The same individual may simultaneously hold more than one office in the Corporation, but no individual may act in more than one capacity where action of two or more officers is required. The title of any officer may include any additional designation descriptive of such officer's duties as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Officers of the Corporation
 
Section 2. . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors or by a committee or an officer authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee to elect one or more officers; provided, however, that no officer may be authorized to elect the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. Each officer shall hold office until his or her death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification or until such officer's successor is elected and qualified.
Appointment and Term
 
Section 3. . The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by or under the authority of the Board of Directors. No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that such officer is also a director.
Compensation
 
Section 4. . An officer may resign at any time by communicating such officer's resignation to the Corporation. A resignation is effective when it is communicated unless it specifies in writing a later effective date. If a resignation is made effective at a later date and the Corporation accepts the future effective date, the Board of Directors may fill the pending vacancy before the effective date if the Board of Directors provides that the successor does not take office until the effective date. The Board of Directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of its members, may remove the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President whenever in its judgment the best interest of the Corporation would be served thereby. In addition, the Board of Directors or a committee or an officer authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee may remove any other officer at any time with or without cause.
Resignation and Removal of Officers
 
Section 5. . The appointment of an officer does not itself create contract rights. An officer's removal does not itself affect the officer's contract rights, if any, with the Corporation, and an officer's resignation does not itself affect the Corporation's contract rights, if any, with the officer.
Contract Rights of Officers
 
Section 6. . The Board of Directors may elect a Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction and control of the Board of Directors, supervise and control the business and affairs of the Corporation. In general the Chief Executive Officer shall perform all duties incident to the position of chief executive officer or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws from time to time.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 7. . The Board of Directors may elect from among its members an officer designated as the Chairman of the Board, but the appointment of a Chairman of the Board shall not be required. If a Chairman of the Board shall be elected, then the Chairman of the Board shall have such other duties and authority as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time. In general the Chairman of the Board shall perform all duties incident to the position of chairman of the board or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws from time to time.
Chairman of the Board
 
Section 8. . The Board of Directors may elect a President. The President shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of that office and, in addition, the President shall perform such other duties and shall have such other authority as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. In general the President shall perform all duties incident to the position of president or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws from time to time. The Board of Directors shall, if it deems such action necessary or desirable, designate the officer of the Corporation who is to perform the duties of the President in the event of such officer's absence or inability to act.
President
 
Section 9. . The Board of Directors may elect one or more officers designated as the Vice Chairman, but the appointment of one or more Vice Chairmen shall not be required. If one or more Vice Chairmen shall be elected, then one or more Vice Chairmen shall have such duties and authority as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Vice Chairman
 
Section 10. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more officers designated as Division Presidents, but the appointment of one or more Division Presidents shall not be required. If one or more Division Presidents shall be appointed, then the Division President(s) shall have such duties and authority as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Division Presidents
 
Section 11. . The Board of Directors may appoint one or more Managing Directors and one or more Vice Presidents. Categories of Vice Presidents may include, but are not limited to, Group Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Assistant Vice Presidents. The Board of Directors may create categories of Managing Directors. Each Managing Director and each Vice President shall have such duties and authorities as may be described by the Board of Directors or by the officer to whom such Managing Director or Vice President reports.
Managing Directors and Vice Presidents
 
Section 12. . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of meetings of the Stockholders and of the Board of Directors and be custodian of the corporate records, and in general perform all duties incident to the office of the secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to the Secretary by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors or a committee created by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
 
Section 13. . The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of all funds and securities of the Corporation, and in general perform all of the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to the Treasurer by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors or a committee created by the Board of Directors.
Treasurer
 
Section 14. . Assistant Secretaries and Deputy Treasurers, if any, shall, in the event of the death of or the inability or refusal to act by the Secretary or the Treasurer, respectively, have all the powers and perform all of the duties of those offices, and they shall, in general, perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Secretary or the Treasurer, respectively, or by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
Assistant Secretaries and Deputy Treasurers
 
 
 
Section 1. . Shares of the Corporation may but need not be represented by certificates. Upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate.
Shares
 
When Shares are represented by certificates, the Corporation shall issue such certificates in such form as shall be required by the DGCL and as determined by the Board of Directors, to every Stockholder for the fully paid Shares owned by such Stockholder. Each certificate shall be signed by the Chairman, or a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the President, or a Vice President, and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Deputy Treasurer of the Corporation representing the number of Shares registered in certificate form. Any or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
 
Section 2. . The Corporation, or its agent, shall keep a book or set of books to be known as the stock transfer books of the Corporation, containing the name of each Stockholder of record, together with such Stockholder's address and the number and class or series of Shares held by such Stockholder. Transfer of Shares of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be made on the stock transfer books of the Corporation only upon surrender of the certificates for the Shares sought to be transferred by the holder of record thereof or by such holder's duly authorized agent, transferee or legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of authority to transfer with the Secretary. All certificates
Stock Transfer Books and Transfer of Shares
 
surrendered for transfer shall be canceled before new certificates for the transferred Shares shall be issued.
 
Section 3. . The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Division President, any Executive Vice President, any Managing Director, the Secretary, the Treasurer, or such other officers, employees or agents as the Board of Directors or such designated officers may direct, may authorize the issuance of a new certificate in place of a certificate claimed to have been lost, destroyed or mutilated, upon receipt of an affidavit of such fact from the persons claiming the loss or destruction and any other documentation satisfactory to the Board of Directors or such officer. At the discretion of the party reviewing such claim, any such claimant may be required to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct to indemnify against the loss from any claim with respect to the certificate claimed to have been lost or destroyed.
Lost Certificates
 
Section 4. . Except as otherwise required by the DGCL, the Corporation may treat the person in whose name the Shares stand of record on its books as the absolute owner of the Shares and the person exclusively entitled to receive notification and distributions, to vote, and to otherwise exercise the rights, powers and privileges of ownership of such Shares.
Holder of Record
 
Section 5. . The Corporation may, if and whenever the Board of Directors so determines, maintain in the State of Delaware or any other state of the United States, one or more transfer offices or agencies and also one or more registry offices, which officers and agencies may establish rules and regulations for the issue, transfer and registration of certificates not inconsistent with these Bylaws. No certificates for Shares of stock of the Corporation in respect of which a Transfer Agent and Registrar shall have been designated shall be valid unless countersigned by such Transfer Agent and registered by such Registrar. Any such countersignature may be a facsimile. The Board may also make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates.
Transfer Agent and Registrar; Regulations
 
 
 
Section 1. . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, or employee of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, manager or employee of an Affiliate or of another corporation, association, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director,
Right to Indemnification
 
officer, manager, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, manager, or employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the DGCL, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation or other entity covered by this Article VIII, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that indemnitee's conduct was unlawful. Such indemnification shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 3 of this Article VIII with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Article VIII shall not apply to any director, officer, manager or employee of an Affiliate that, through its corporate governance documents or otherwise by contract, provides indemnification to its directors, officers, managers or employees.
 
Section 2. . The right to indemnification conferred in this Article shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding for which such right to indemnification is applicable in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an "advancement of expenses"); provided, however, that an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an "Undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a "final adjudication") that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section or otherwise.
Right to Advancement of Expenses
 
Section 3. . The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII, as limited by Section 7 hereof, shall be contract rights. If a claim under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
 
a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) in any suit by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the DGCL. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors or independent legal counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors or independent legal counsel) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an Undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
 
Section 4. . The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of Stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
 
Section 5. . The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, or employee of the Corporation or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, manager, employee or agent of another corporation, association, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL.
Insurance
 
Section 6. . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of expenses to any agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Agents of the Corporation
 
Section 7. . All indemnification and insurance provisions contained in this Article VIII are subject to the limitations and prohibitions imposed by federal law, including the Securities Act of 1933 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and any implementing regulations concerning indemnification.
Limitations on Indemnification
 
 
 
Section 1. . All agreements, indentures, mortgages, deeds, conveyances, transfers, contracts, checks, notes, drafts, loan documents, letters of credit, master agreements, swap agreements, guarantees, certificates, declarations, receipts, discharges, releases, satisfactions, settlements, petitions, schedules, accounts, affidavits, bonds, undertakings, powers of attorney, and other instruments or documents may be signed, executed, acknowledged, verified, attested, delivered or accepted on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Division President, any Managing Director, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, or any individual who is listed on the Corporation's Officer's payroll file in a position equal to any of the aforementioned officer positions, or such other officers, employees or agents as the Board of Directors or any of such designated officers or individuals may direct. The provisions of this Section 1 are supplementary to any other provision of these Bylaws and shall not be construed to authorize execution of instruments otherwise dictated by law.
Execution of Instruments
 
Section 2. . The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Division President, any Executive Vice President, any Managing Director, the Secretary, the Treasurer, or such other officers, employees or agents as the Board of Directors or such designated officers may direct are authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of stock or other ownership interests in any Affiliate or any other corporations, associations, limited liability companies, partnerships, or other entities standing in the name of the Corporation. The authority herein granted to the individuals to vote or represent on behalf of the Corporation any and all ownership interests held by the Corporation may be exercised either by the individuals in person or by any duly executed proxy or power of attorney.
Voting of Ownership Interests
 
Section 3. . The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize, and the Corporation may pay or distribute, dividends or other distributions on its outstanding Shares in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as are permitted by the Certificate of Incorporation and the DGCL.
Distributions
 
Section 4. . Any officer of the Corporation is empowered to affix the corporate seal on all documents, and may attest the signature of any person executing an instrument on behalf of the Corporation. In the execution on behalf of the Corporation of any instrument, document, writing, notice or paper, it shall not be necessary to affix the corporate seal of the Corporation thereon, and any such instrument, document, writing, notice or paper when executed without said seal affixed thereon shall be of the same force and effect and as binding on the Corporation as if said corporate seal had been affixed thereon in each instance.
Seal and Attestation
 
Section 5. . The Board of Directors may amend or repeal these Bylaws and may adopt new Bylaws at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The Stockholders of the Corporation may also amend or repeal these Bylaws and may adopt new Bylaws.
Amendments
 
 
 
Section 1. . This Article X shall be operative during any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or on a locality in which the Corporation conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of its Board of Directors or its shareholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster or during the existence of any catastrophe or other similar emergency condition, as a result of which a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee thereof cannot be readily convened (an "emergency"), notwithstanding any different or conflicting provision in the preceding Articles of these Bylaws or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article, the Bylaws provided in the preceding Articles and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall remain in effect during such emergency, and upon termination of such emergency, the provisions of this Article X shall cease to be operative.
Emergency Bylaws
 
Section 2. . During any emergency, a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may be called by any officer or director of the Corporation. Notice of the time and place of the meeting shall be given by any available means of communication by the person calling the meeting to such of the directors and the members of the Corporation's Management Operating Committee, or any successor committee thereto, (the "Designated Officers") as it may be feasible to reach. Such notice shall be given at such time in advance of the meeting as, in the judgment of the person calling the meeting, circumstances permit. As a result of any emergency, the Board of Directors may determine that a meeting of Stockholders not be held at any place, but instead be held solely by means of remote communication in accordance with the DGCL.
Meetings
 
Section 3. . At any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, called in accordance with Section 2 of this Article X, the presence of one director shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Vacancies on the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may be filled by a majority vote of the directors in attendance at the meeting. In the event that no directors are able to attend a meeting of the Board of Directors, then the Designated Officers in attendance shall serve as directors for the meeting, without any additional quorum requirement and with full powers to act as directors of the Corporation.
Quorum
 
Section 4. . At any meeting called in accordance with Section 2 of this Article X, the Board of Directors or the committees thereof, as the case
Amendments
 
may be, may modify, amend or add to the provisions of this Article X so as to make any provision that may be practical or necessary for the circumstances of the emergency.
 
Section 5. . A management contingency plan developed by the Corporation's Personnel Division and reviewed annually by a Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors shall be maintained in the custody of the Secretary. Absent action by the Board of Directors, the Corporation shall be managed in accordance with the management contingency plan during an emergency.
Contingency Plan
 
Section 6. . No officer, director or employee of the Corporation acting in accordance with the provisions of this Article X shall be liable except for willful misconduct.
Liability
 
Section 7. . The provisions of this Article X shall be subject to repeal or change by further action of the Board of Directors or by action of the shareholders, but no such repeal or change shall modify the provisions of Section 6 of this Article X with regard to action taken prior to the time of such repeal or change.
Repeal or Change
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted:  September 24, 2003
 


