FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20040714072222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 1, 2004, Bank of America Corporation (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K under Item 2. thereto to report that it had closed its merger (the "Merger") with FleetBoston Financial Corporation ("FleetBoston"). In response to parts (a) and (b) of Item 7 of such Form 8-K, the Company stated that it would file the required financial information by amendment, as permitted by Instructions (a)(4) and (b)(2) to Item 7 to Form 8-K. An 8-K/A was filed on April 14, 2004 providing such financial information. An additional Form 8-K/A was filed on May 7, 2004 to provide additional financial information, and this Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide further financial information
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
The required financial statements of FleetBoston as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
The required financial statements of FleetBoston as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.5 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.6 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 14, 2004
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.6
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Bank of America and FleetBoston may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the merger of Bank of America and FleetBoston on the companies' respective historical results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with Bank of America treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of FleetBoston were recorded by Bank of America at their estimated fair values as of April 1, 2004, the date the merger was completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Bank of America and FleetBoston for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The merger agreement was announced on October 27, 2003 and resulted in the conversion of each outstanding share of FleetBoston common stock other than shares beneficially owned by FleetBoston and Bank of America into 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock. Shares of FleetBoston preferred stock were converted on a one-for-one basis into Bank of America preferred stock having the same terms as the corresponding FleetBoston preferred stock, except in the case of shares held by preferred stockholders who validly perfected dissenters' appraisal rights. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both Bank of America and FleetBoston.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, hedging activities, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes the impact of Fleet's cash flow hedge accounting as provided by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Fleet's historical Net interest income includes the reclassification of deferred cash flow hedge gains and losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income. However, in purchase accounting deferred cash flow hedge gains and losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income have been eliminated and will not be reclassified into Net interest income in periods subsequent to the merger. Fleet's historical results include reclassified deferred net cash flow hedge gains of $45 million, $94 million, and $120 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003, and for the six months ended June 30, 2003, and 2004, respectively.
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
Note 1Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2004. The pro forma adjustments included herein reflect the conversion of FleetBoston common stock into Bank of America common stock using an exchange ratio of 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock for each of the 1,068,634,852 shares of FleetBoston common stock exchanged at April 1, 2004, $271 million related to the conversion of 1,082,450 shares of preferred stock and $1.36 billion for the approximately 70 million shares of FleetBoston common stock issuable under outstanding stock options that were converted into Bank of America stock options, direct acquisition costs and the cost of FleetBoston shares already owned by Bank of America. The purchase price of $47.3 billion includes direct acquisition costs, the value of stock options, and is based on a per share price for Bank of America common stock of $76.88, which was the average of the closing prices of Bank of America common stock for the period commencing two trading days before, and ending two trading days after, October 27, 2003, the date of the merger agreement. The purchase price was adjusted to reflect the effect of the 15.7 million shares of FleetBoston common stock already owned by Bank of America valued at their historical cost of $457 million. Bank of America preferred stock exchanged was valued using the book value of FleetBoston preferred stock.
 
The merger is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly, Bank of America's cost to acquire FleetBoston has been allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including executor contracts and other commitments) of FleetBoston at their respective fair values as of April 1, 2004.
 
Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of FleetBoston have been reclassified to conform to Bank of America's historical financial information presentation. Discontinued operations reported in FleetBoston's historical consolidated statement of income have been excluded. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
 
Note 2Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and June 30, 2004 were prepared assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the exchange of 593,413,242 shares of Bank of America common stock with an aggregate fair value of approximately $45.6 billion, the issuance of $271 million of Bank of America preferred stock and $1.36 billion for the approximately 70 million shares of FleetBoston common stock issued under outstanding stock options that converted into Bank of America stock options, direct acquisition costs and the cost of 15.7 million shares of FleetBoston common stock already owned by Bank of America valued at their historical cost of $457 million. Common stock and preferred stock issued in the exchange was valued using the methodology discussed in Note 1 above.
 
All FleetBoston stock options vested upon completion of the merger and converted into Bank of America stock options. The fair value of the Bank of America options issued in exchange for the FleetBoston options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock price and volatility that when changed can materially affect fair value estimates. Accordingly, the model does not necessarily provide for a reliable single measure of the fair value of employee stock options. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the Bank of America stock options to be issued in the exchange for FleetBoston stock options include a risk-free interest rate of 3.61 percent, a dividend yield of 4.70 percent, a weighted average expected life of three years and volatility of 27 percent. The three-year term was based on the weighted average expected term to expiration of these options.
 
The allocation of the purchase price follows:
 
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


