FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20040102155633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events and Required FD Disclosure.
 
Banc of America Securities LLC ("BAS"), a subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation, has received notification from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that the staff of the SEC's Enforcement Division is considering recommending the SEC take legal action against BAS, alleging that it violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 17(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A copy of the press release regarding the notification is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 2, 2004
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
January 2, 2004
 
Media may contact:
Eloise Hale, Bank of America, 704.387.0013
eloise.hale@bankofamerica.com
 
 
CHARLOTTEBanc of America Securities LLC (BAS) has received notification from the Enforcement Division of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the staff is considering recommending civil injunctive action against BAS, a subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation. The staff has not made a formal enforcement recommendation to the SEC. BAS is cooperating fully with the inquiry and is submitting reasons why it does not believe an action should be brought.
 
The SEC staff is alleging that BAS violated the books and records retention laws by improperly storing certain documents relevant to an inquiry and not producing the requested documents in a timely manner. BAS continues to provide documents and to respond to requests from the SEC on this matter.
 
The allegations arose out of an SEC inquiry that began more than two years ago into certain trading activities in the firm's San Francisco office.
 
Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) is one of the world's leading financial services companies. The company's Global Corporate and Investment Banking group (GCIB) provides investment banking, equity and debt capital raising, research, trading, risk management, treasury management and financial advisory services. Through offices in 31 countries, GCIB serves domestic and international corporations, institutional investors, financial institutions and government entities. Many of the company's services to corporate and institutional clients are provided through its U.S. and UK subsidiaries, Banc of America Securities LLC and Banc of America Securities Limited.
 


