FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20040330160407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
                Any share of Bank of America Preferred Stock will have the general dividend, voting, and liquidation preference rights stated below unless otherwise fixed by the board of directors of Bank of America, subject to the terms of Bank of America's Certificate of Incorporation. . In the event of Bank of America's voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, the holders of any series of Bank of America Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, after distributions to holders of any series or class of Bank of America capital stock ranking superior, an amount equal to the stated or liquidation value of the        
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2004
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 30, 2004
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
(State of Incorporation)
Delaware
1-6523 (Commission File Number)
56-0906609 (IRS Employer Identification No.)
100 North Tryon Street Charlotte, North Carolina (Address of principal executive offices)
28255 (Zip Code)
(800) 299-2265 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Events
           As previously announced, Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation and the registrant hereunder ("Bank of America"), and FleetBoston Financial Corporation, a Rhode Island corporation ("FleetBoston"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 27, 2003 (the "Merger Agreement"). The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of FleetBoston with and into Bank of America (the "Merger"), with Bank of America as the surviving corporation in the Merger. The Merger will be treated as a purchase by Bank of America under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and is intended to constitute a "reorganization" for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
          At the effective time of the Merger,
          (a) each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of FleetBoston ("FleetBoston Common Stock"), outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted into the right to receive 0.5553 of a share (the "Exchange Ratio") of the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Bank of America ("Bank of America Common Stock");
          (b) each share of FleetBoston Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted, without any action on the part of the holder, into one share of a newly-designated series of Bank of America Preferred Stock (as defined below), designated as the "Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock" and with the terms set forth in an Amended Certificate of Designation of the 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock of Bank of America, filed as Exhibit 4.1; and
         (c) each share of FleetBoston Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger will be converted, without any action on the part of the holder, into one share of a newly-designated series of Bank of America Preferred Stock, designated as the "Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock" and with the terms set forth in an Amended Certificate of Designation of the Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock of Bank of America, filed as Exhibit 4.2.
         The shares of each of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock and the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock (collectively, the "New Preferred Stock") will be held by EquiServe, Inc., successor to First Chicago, NBD and Fleet National Bank, as Depositary (the "Depositary") under (a) the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock dated as of February 21, 1996 (the "6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock Deposit Agreement"), as amended by the Amendment to the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, effective April 1, 2004 (the "6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock Amendment"); and (b) the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock dated as of April 1, 1996 (the "Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock Deposit Agreement"), as amended by the Amendment to the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock , effective April 1, 2004 (the "Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock Amendment"). Copies of the 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock Deposit Agreement, 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock Amendment, Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock    
Deposit Agreement, and Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock Amendment are filed as Exhibits 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, and 4.6, respectively. The 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock Deposit Agreement, as amended, and the Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock Deposit Agreement, as amended, (together, the "Deposit Agreements") are among Bank of America, the Depositary, and the holders from time to time of depositary receipts issued by the Depositary thereunder (the "Depositary Receipts"). The Depositary Receipts so issued will evidence the Depositary Shares.
        Subject to the terms of the Deposit Agreements, each owner of a Depositary Share is entitled through the Depositary, in proportion to the one-fifth interest in a share of New Preferred Stock underlying that Depositary Share, to all rights and preferences of a share of New Preferred Stock (including dividend, voting, redemption and liquidation rights). Since each share of New Preferred Stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote in those limited circumstances in which the New Preferred Stock is entitled to vote, each Depositary Share will, in effect, entitle the holder thereof to one-fifth of a vote, rather than one full vote.
         Holders of FleetBoston Common Stock will receive cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Bank of America Common Stock to which they are entitled as a result of the Merger.
DESCRIPTION OF BANK OF AMERICA CAPITAL STOCK
 
        The statements in this description of Bank of America capital stock are brief summaries of, and are subject to the provisions of, Bank of America's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, preferred stock certificates of designation and the relevant provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Description of Common Stock
         The following is an updated description of Bank of America Common Stock. That description has been filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended), and updated and amended from time to time. To the extent the following description is inconsistent with prior filings, it modifies and supersedes those filings.
         In connection with the Merger, the Board of Directors of Bank of America adopted a Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation ("Certificate of Amendment") to increase the authorized Bank of America Common Stock from 5 billion shares to 7.5 billion shares. A copy of the Certificate of Amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1. Approximately 1.4 billion shares of Bank of America Common Stock were outstanding on January 26, 2004. Bank of America Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange and on the Pacific Exchange under the symbol "BAC." Bank of America Common Stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange, and certain shares of Bank America Common Stock are listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. As of January 26, 2004, approximately 337 million shares of Bank of America Common Stock were reserved for issuance in connection with various Bank of America employee and director benefit plans, Bank of America's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, the conversion of Bank of America's outstanding convertible securities and for other purposes. After taking into account the increased authorization and the reserved shares  
                                                                                     2
of Bank of America Common Stock, Bank of America will have approximately 5.2 billion authorized shares of Bank of America Common Stock available for issuance as of the effective time of the Merger.
Voting and Other Rights
          Holders of Bank of America Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. Directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, and there are no cumulative voting rights. In general, a majority of votes cast on a matter is sufficient to take action upon routine matters; however, (1) amendments to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bank of America (the "Certificate of Incorporation") must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of each class entitled to vote on those amendments as a class; and (2) a merger or dissolution or the sale of all or substantially all of Bank of America's assets must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting shares.
          In the event of Bank of America's liquidation, holders of Bank of America Common Stock will be entitled to receive any assets legally available for distribution to Bank of America stockholders, subject to any prior rights of any Bank of America Preferred Stock then outstanding.
pro rata
          Bank of America Common Stock does not have any preemptive rights, redemption privileges, sinking fund privileges, or conversion rights. All the outstanding shares of Bank of America Common Stock are, and upon proper conversion of any Bank of America Preferred Stock, all of the shares of Bank of America Common Stock into which these shares are converted will be, validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable.
          Mellon Investor Services, LLC is the transfer agent and registrar for Bank of America Common Stock.
Dividends
          Subject to the preferential rights of any holders of any outstanding series of Bank of America Preferred Stock, the holders of Bank of America Common Stock are entitled to receive dividends or distributions, whether payable in cash or otherwise, as the Bank of America board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for these payments. Stock dividends, if any are declared, may be paid from authorized but unissued shares of Bank of America Common Stock.
          As a bank holding company, the ability of Bank of America to pay dividends will be affected by the ability of its banking subsidiaries to pay dividends. The ability of such banking subsidiaries, as well as of Bank of America, to pay dividends in the future currently is, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory requirements and capital guidelines.
Description of Preferred Stock
        Bank of America has 100 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Bank of America Preferred Stock"), authorized and may issue Bank of America Preferred
                                                                                   3
Stock in one or more series, each with such preferences, designations, limitations, conversion rights, and other rights as Bank of America may determine. Bank of America has designated:
(1) 3 million shares of ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Series C ("ESOP Preferred Stock"), of which 1,261,824 shares were issued and outstanding at January 26, 2004;
(2) 35,045 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, of which 7,776 shares were issued and outstanding at January 26, 2004;
(3) 20 million shares of $2.50 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Series BB ("Series BB Preferred Stock"), none of which are issued and outstanding;
(4) 690,000 shares of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, none of which were issued and outstanding at January 26, 2004; and
(5) 805,000 shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, none of which were issued and outstanding at January 26, 2004.
. The holders of Bank of America Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive when, as, and if declared by the Bank of America board of directors, cash dividends at those rates as will be fixed by the board of directors of Bank of America, subject to the terms of Bank of America's Certificate of Incorporation. All dividends will be paid out of Bank of America's funds that are legally available for this purpose. Whenever dividends on any non-voting preferred stock are in arrears for six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the non-voting preferred stock will have the right to elect two additional directors to serve on the Bank of America board of directors, and these two additional directors will continue to serve until the dividend arrearage is eliminated.
          Dividends
. The holders of Bank of America Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except:
          Voting
* each share of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to one vote per share; * each share of ESOP Preferred Stock is entitled to two votes per share;
 
* as required by applicable law; or
* as specifically approved by Bank of America for that particular series.
          Liquidation Preference
                                                                                         4
shares of the series plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends. If the assets and funds to be distributed among the holders of Bank of America Preferred Stock will be insufficient to permit full payment to the holders, then the holders of Bank of America Preferred Stock will share ratably in any distribution of Bank of America's assets in proportion to the amounts that they would otherwise receive on their shares of Bank of America Preferred Stock if the shares were paid in full.
ESOP Preferred Stock
         All shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are held by the trustee under the Bank of America 401(k) Plan. Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible into Bank of America Common Stock at a conversion rate of 1.68 shares of Bank of America Common Stock per share of ESOP Preferred Stock, subject to certain customary anti-dilution adjustments.
. The ESOP Preferred Stock ranks senior to Bank of America Common Stock and ranks junior to the Series B Preferred Stock, Series BB Preferred Stock, Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, and Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock as to dividends and distributions on liquidation. ESOP Preferred Stock does not have preemptive or preferential rights to purchase or subscribe to shares of Bank of America capital stock, and is not subject to any sinking fund obligations or other obligations to repurchase or retire the series, except as discussed below.
         Preferential Rights
. ESOP Preferred Stock is entitled to an annual dividend, subject to certain adjustments, of $3.30 per share, payable semiannually. Unpaid dividends accumulate on the date they first became payable, without interest. While any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, Bank of America may not declare, pay, or set apart for payment any dividend on any other series of Bank of America stock ranking equally with the ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends unless Bank of America has declared and paid, or set apart for payment, like dividends on ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods ending on or before the dividend payment date for the parity Bank of America stock, ratably in proportion to their respective amounts of accumulated and unpaid dividends. Bank of America generally may not declare, pay, or set apart for payment any dividends, except for, among other things, dividends payable solely in shares of Bank of America stock ranking junior to ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, or make any other distribution on, or make payment on account of the purchase, redemption, or other retirement of, any other class or series of Bank of America capital stock ranking junior to ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, until full cumulative dividends on ESOP Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or set apart for payment when due.
          Dividends
. Holders of ESOP Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Bank of America Common Stock and vote together with the holders of Bank of America Common Stock as one class. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, holders of ESOP Preferred Stock have no special voting rights. To the extent that holders of the shares are entitled to vote, each share is entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of shares of Bank of America Common Stock into which the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock could be converted on the record date for determining Bank of America stockholders entitled to vote, rounded to the nearest whole vote. Under the current conversion
          Voting Rights
                                                                                          5
rate, each share of ESOP Preferred Stock is entitled to two votes.
. In the event of Bank of America's voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding-up, holders of ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, out of Bank of America's assets available for distribution to Bank of America stockholders, $42.50 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to the date fixed for distribution. These distributions will be subject to the rights of the holders of any Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking senior to or equally with ESOP Preferred Stock as to distributions upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding-up but before any amount will be paid or distributed among the holders of Bank of America Common Stock or any other shares of Bank of America stock ranking junior to ESOP Preferred Stock. If, upon Bank of America's voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding-up, the amounts payable on ESOP Preferred Stock and any other Bank of America stock ranking equally therewith as to any distribution are not paid in full, holders of ESOP Preferred Stock and the other Bank of America capital stock will share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distribution to which it is entitled, holders of ESOP Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further distribution of Bank of America's assets. Any merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of assets by Bank of America will not be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding-up of Bank of America's affairs.
        Distributions
. ESOP Preferred Stock is redeemable, in whole or in part, at Bank of America's option at any time. The redemption price for the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, which may be paid in cash or shares of Bank of America Common Stock, is $42.50 per share. The redemption price also must include all accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption. If ESOP Preferred Stock is treated as Tier 1 capital for bank regulatory purposes, the approval of the Federal Reserve Board may be required to redeem ESOP Preferred Stock.
        Redemption
        In addition, Bank of America is required to redeem shares of ESOP Preferred Stock at the option of the holder to the extent necessary either to provide for distributions required to be made under the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or to make payments of principal, interest, or premium due and payable on any indebtedness incurred by the holder for the benefit of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan.
Series B Preferred Stock
. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock rank senior to ESOP Preferred Stock and Bank of America Common Stock, rank equally with Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock and Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, and rank junior to Series BB Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation. Series B Preferred Stock is not convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of Bank of America Common Stock or any other class of capital stock Without the consent of holders of Series B Preferred Stock, Bank of America may issue preferred stock with superior or equal rights or preferences.
        
Preferential Rights
. Holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Bank of America board of directors, cumulative cash dividends at an  
        Dividends
                                                                                     6
annual dividend rate per share of 7% of the stated value thereof. The stated value per share of the Series B Preferred Stock is $100. Dividends are payable quarterly. Bank of America cannot declare or pay cash dividends on any shares of Bank of America Common Stock unless full cumulative dividends on Series B Preferred Stock have been paid or declared and funds sufficient for the payment have been set apart.
. Each share of Series B Preferred Stock has equal voting rights, share for share, with each share of Bank of America Common Stock.
        Voting Rights
. In the event of Bank of America's voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, after payment of the full liquidation preference on shares of any class of Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking superior to Series B Preferred Stock, but before any distribution on shares of Bank of America Common Stock, liquidating dividends of $100 per share plus accumulated dividends.
       Distributions
. Shares of Series B Preferred Stock are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the holders, at the redemption price of $100 per share plus accumulated dividends, that (1) full cumulative dividends have been paid, or declared and funds sufficient for payment set apart, upon any class or series of Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking superior to Series B Preferred Stock; and (2) Bank of America is not then in default or in arrears on any sinking fund or analogous fund or call for tenders obligation or agreement for the purchase or any class or series of Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking superior to Series B Preferred Stock.
      Redemption
provided
Series BB Preferred Stock
Holders of Series BB Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Bank of America board of directors, out of Bank of America funds legally available for payment, an annual dividend of $2.50 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year. Dividends on Series BB Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of issue. Each dividend is payable to holders of record as appearing on the Bank of America stock register on the record dates fixed by the Bank of America board of directors. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, is payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on Series BB Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.
      
Dividends.
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, holders of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock have the right, at their option, to convert such shares into shares of Bank of America Common Stock at any time into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Bank of America Common Stock (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/1,000 of a share) at the rate of 6.17215 shares of Bank of America Common Stock for each share of Series BB Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion (the "Conversion Rate"). The Conversion Rate is subject to adjustment from time to time to reflect Bank of America Common Stock splits and similar alterations in Bank of America Common Stock.
        Conversion Rights
. Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock are redeemable at the option of the Bank of America, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus an amount
         Redemption
                                                                                            7
equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon up to and including the redemption date. Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock are not subject to a sinking fund.
. In the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the affairs of the Bank of America, holders of Series BB Preferred Stock are entitled to receive out of the assets of the Bank of America available for distribution to stockholders an amount equal to $25 per share plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon up to and including the date of such distribution, and no more, before any distribution is made to the holders of any class of stock of the Bank of America ranking junior to the Series BB Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets.
         Liquidation Rights
. Holders of Series BB Preferred Stock have no voting rights except (1) as required by law; and (2) in the event any quarterly dividend payable on the Series BB Preferred Stock is in arrears, holders of Series BB Preferred Stock are entitled to vote together with the holders of Bank of America Common Stock at the next meeting of Bank of America stockholders and at each subsequent meeting of Bank of America stockholders, unless all dividends in arrears have been paid or declared and set apart for payment prior to the date of the meeting. In those cases where holders of Series BB Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, each holder is entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole shares of Bank of America Common Stock into which his or her Series BB Preferred Stock is then convertible.
         Voting
6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock
           Bank of America will issue one share of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock for each share of FleetBoston Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger. The shares of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock will be validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable.
. The Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock ranks senior to Bank of America Common Stock and ESOP Preferred Stock, equally with Series B Preferred Stock and Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, and junior to any Series BB Preferred Stock as to dividends and distributions on liquidation.
           Preferential Rights
. The holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends at the rate of 6.75% , payable quarterly, before Bank of America may declare or pay any dividend on Bank of America Common Stock or Bank of America junior preferred stock. The dividends on the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are cumulative. If the Internal Revenue Code is amended to reduce the percentage of the dividend payable on Bank of America Preferred Stock that may be deducted by corporate stockholders (the "Dividends Received Deduction"), which currently is 70%, Bank of America will increase the amount of dividends payable on the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such amendment.
          Dividends
per annum
Holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock have no voting rights, except as required by law and to the extent the consent of the holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock at the time outstanding is necessary to authorize, effect, or validate any amendment, alteration, or repeal of any provision of the Bank of America
          Voting Rights.
                                                                                       8
Certificate of Incorporation or to create any series of stock with dividend rights or liquidation preferences ranking greater than the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock. If any quarterly dividend payable on the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock is in arrears for six full quarterly dividends or more, the holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock will be entitled to vote together as a group, to the exclusion of the holders of any other Bank of America Preferred Stock or Bank of America Common Stock, at the next Bank of America annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and at each subsequent meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, until all dividends in arrears have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, for two directors. Each director elected by the holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock shall continue to serve as a director until the dividend arrearage is eliminated.
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, holders of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are entitled to receive out of assets available for distribution to stockholders an amount equal to $250 per share plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon up to and including the date of distribution, and no more, before any distribution will be made to the holders of any class of Bank of America stock ranking junior to the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets. In determining whether payment of a distribution must be made to the holders of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, any merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of assets by Bank of America will not be deemed a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of such affairs. Shares of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are not subject to a sinking fund.
           Distributions.
. Bank of America may redeem the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at Bank of America's option, on and after April 15, 2006, at $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any. Bank of America also may redeem the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock prior to April 15, 2006, in whole, at Bank of America's option, if the Internal Revenue Code is amended to reduce the Dividends Received Deduction.
           Redemption
          So long as any shares of Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are outstanding, Bank of America may not redeem any shares of Bank of America Common Stock or any other class of Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking junior to or on a parity with Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock unless Bank of America has paid full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock for all past dividend payment periods. Further, if any dividends on the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock are in arrears, Bank of America may not redeem any shares of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock unless Bank of America simultaneously redeems all outstanding shares of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, except pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of the Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock.
Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock
           Bank of America will issue one share of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock for each share of FleetBoston Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate
                                                                                  9
Cumulative Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger. The shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock will be validly issued, fully paid, and nonassessable.
. The Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock ranks senior to Bank of America Common Stock and ESOP Preferred Stock, equally with Series B Preferred Stock and Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, and junior to Series BB Preferred Stock as to dividends and distributions on liquidation.
          Preferential Rights
. Through April 1, 2006, the holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends at the rate of 6.60% computed on the basis of the issue price of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock of $250 per share, payable quarterly out of the funds legally available for the payment of dividends, before Bank of America may declare or pay any dividend upon Bank of America Common Stock or junior Bank of America Preferred Stock. After April 1, 2006, the dividend rate on Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock will be a rate equal to 0.50% plus the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate, as each term is defined in the Certificate of Designation establishing the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock. The applicable rate for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will not be less than 7.0% nor greater than 13.0%.
          Dividends
per annum
per annum
per annum
         The dividends on Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are cumulative. If the Internal Revenue Code is amended to reduce the Dividends Received Deduction, Bank of America will increase the amount of dividends that will be payable on Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such amendment.
Holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock have no voting rights, except as required by law and to the extent the consent of the holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock at the time outstanding is necessary to authorize, effect, or validate any amendment, alteration, or repeal of any provision of the Bank of America Certificate of Incorporation or to create any series of stock with dividend rights or liquidation preferences ranking greater than the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock. If any quarterly dividend payable on the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock is in arrears for six full quarterly dividends or more, the holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock will be entitled to vote together as a group, to the exclusion of the holders of any other preferred stock or the common stock, at the next Bank of America annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and at each subsequent meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, until all dividends in arrears have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, for two directors. Each director elected by the holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock shall continue to serve as a director until the dividend arrearage is eliminated.
         Voting Rights.
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, holders of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are
        Distributions.
                                                                                        10
entitled to receive out of assets available for distribution to stockholders an amount equal to $250 per share plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon up to and including the date of distribution, and no more, before any distribution will be made to the holders of any class of Bank of America stock ranking junior to the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets. In determining whether payment of a distribution must be made to the holders of the Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, any merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of assets by Bank of America will not be deemed a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of such affairs. Shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are not subject to a sinking fund.
. Bank of America may redeem Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at Bank of America's option, on and after April 1, 2006, at $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any. Bank of America may also redeem Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock prior to April 1, 2006, in whole, at Bank of America's option, if the Internal Revenue Code is amended to reduce the Dividends Received Deduction.
         Redemption
         So long as any shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are outstanding, Bank of America may not redeem any shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Bank of America Common Stock or any other class of Bank of America Preferred Stock ranking junior to or on a parity with Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, unless Bank of America has paid full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock for all past dividend payment periods. Further, if any dividends on Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock are in arrears, Bank of America may not redeem any shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, unless Bank of America simultaneously redeems all outstanding shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, except pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock.  
                                                                                    11
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed herewith:  
 
SIGNATURES
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                                                        BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
                                                                                        By: /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER                                                                                                    TERESA M. BRENNER                                                                                                    Associate General Counsel    
Dated: March 30, 2004              
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

          SECOND: That said amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.  
CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
OF
AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
OF
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
         Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify as follows:
         FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, declaring said amendment to be advisable and calling a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for consideration thereof. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:
RESOLVED, that Article 3 of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation be amended by changing the number of shares of stock the Corporation is authorized to issue, so that, as amended, the first sentence of said Article 3 shall be and read as follows: "3. The number of shares, par value $.01 per share, the Corporation is authorized to issue is Seven Billion Six Hundred Million (7,600,000,000), divided into the following classes:
 
Class                          Number of Shares Common                     7,500,000,000 Preferred                    100,000,000." The balance of said Article 3 shall remain unchanged.
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 26th day of March, 2004.
                                                                            By:                                                                             Name: James H. Hance, Jr.                                                                             Title: Vice Chairman and Chief Financial                                                                                      Officer
/s/ James H. Hance, Jr.

          (g)  . Shares of this Series which have been issued and reacquired through redemption or purchase shall, upon compliance with an applicable provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued but only as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board.             IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designation to be duly executed by James H. Hance, Jr., its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and attested to by Rachel R. Cummings, its Corporate Secretary, and has caused the corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 26th day of March, 2004.
CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
OF
6.75% PERPETUALPREFERRED STOCK
OF
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
(Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware Corporation Law)
           Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on January 28, 2004:
           RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, without par value (the "Preferred Stock") and hereby states the designation and number thereof and fixes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows:
          (a)  . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock shall be "6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock" (hereinafter called this "Series") and the number of shares constituting this Series is Six Hundred Ninety Thousand (690,000).
Designation
           (b)  .
Dividend Rate
          (1)   The holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive dividends thereon at a rate of 6.75% per annum computed on the basis of an issue price thereof of $250 per share, and no more, payable quarterly out of the funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of dividends. Such dividends shall be cumulative from the date of original issue of such shares and shall be payable, when, as and if declared by the Board, on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2004 (a "Dividend Payment Date"). Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record date, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board. Dividends on account of arrears for any past quarters may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board.
        (2)   If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), are enacted that change the percentage of the dividends received deduction (currently 70%) as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision (the "Dividends Received Percentage"), the amount of each dividend payable per share of this Series for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as described above (before adjustment) by a factor which shall be the number determined in accordance with the following formula (the "DRD Formula"), and rounding the result to the nearest cent:
                                                         1 - .35(1 - .70)/1 - .35(1 - DRP)
         For the purposes of the DRD Formula, "DRP" means the Dividends Received Percentage applicable to the dividend in question. No amendment to the Code, other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give rise to an adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation shall receive either an unqualified opinion of independent recognized tax counsel or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not apply to dividends payable on shares of this Series, then any such amendment shall not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD Formula. The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable as so adjusted and as certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the Corporation shall be final and not subject to review.           If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage is enacted after a dividend payable on a Dividend Payment Date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such Dividend Payment Date will not be increased; but instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage) and (y) the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date, will be payable to holders of record on the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date in addition to any other amounts payable on such date.
 
         (3)   No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the Preferred Stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to this Series for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on this Series for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of this Series and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series, all dividends declared upon shares of this Series
                                                                                          2
and any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on this Series and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other preferred stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of this Series shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stocks, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on this Series. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on this Series which may be in arrears.
           (4)   So long as any shares of this Series are outstanding, no dividend (other than a dividend in Common Stock or in any other stock ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation and other than as provided in subsection (3) of this Section (b)) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other stock ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock nor any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of this Series shall have been paid for all past dividend payment periods.
          (5)  Dividends payable on this Series for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(c)   .
Redemption
         (1) (A)  The shares of this Series shall not be redeemable prior to April 15, 2006. On and after April 15, 2006, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of this Series, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price of $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption.
              (B)  In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed pursuant to subsection (1)(A), the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board or by any other method as may be determined by the Board in its sole discretion to be equitable.
          (2) (A)  Notwithstanding subsection (1) above, if the Dividends Received Percentage is equal to or less than 40% and, as a result, the amount of dividends on the shares of this Series payable on any Dividend Payment Date will be or is adjusted upwards as described in Section (b)(2) above, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the outstanding shares of this Series; provided, that within sixty days of the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the
                                                                                      3
Dividends Received Percentage to 40% or less, the Corporation sends notice to holders of shares of this Series of such redemption in accordance with subsection (3) below.
               (B)  Any redemption of the Perpetual Preferred Stock in accordance with this subsection (2) shall be at the applicable redemption price set forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) thereon to the date fixed for redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the Dividends Received Percentage.  
             (3)  In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of this Series pursuant to subsections (1) or (2) above, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date.
           (4)  Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of this Series so called for redemption under either subsection (1) or (2) above shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof.
         (5)  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section (c), if any dividends on this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of this Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to
                                                                              4
 
a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of this Series.
(d)   .
Liquidation Rights
         (1)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive and be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or on any other class of stock ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, the amount of $250 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.
         (2)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property or business of the Corporation nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section (d).
       (3)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of this Series of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section (d), the holders of this Series as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
       (4)  In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of shares of this Series upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Section (d), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of this Series upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of this Series, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
(e)   .  The holders of shares of this Series shall not have any rights herein to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation.
Conversion or Exchange
(f)   . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers, either general or special, except that:
Voting
          (1)   Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series shall vote together as a separate class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of the
                                                                              5
Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any Certificate of the Voting Powers, Designations, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional or Other Special Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, or any similar document relating to any series of Preferred Stock) which would adversely affect the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of this Series;
         (2)  Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series and all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Stock shall vote together as a single class without regard to series, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting, increasing or validating the creation, authorization or issue of any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking prior to the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, or the reclassification of any authorized stock of the Corporation into any such prior shares, or the creation, authorization or issue of any obligation or security convertible, into or evidencing the right to purchase any such prior shares.
         (3)  If, at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, a default in preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation (other than any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock expressly entitled to elect additional directors to the Board by a vote separate and distinct from the vote provided for in this paragraph (3) ("Voting Preferred")) shall exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two (without duplication of any increase made pursuant to the terms of any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock other than any Voting Preferred) and the holders of the Corporation's preferred stock of all classes and series (other than any such Voting Preferred) shall have the right at such meeting, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock and the Voting Preferred, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships. Such right shall continue until there are no dividends in arrears upon shares of any class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock ranking prior to or on a parity with shares of this Series as to dividends (other than any Voting Preferred). Each director elected by the holders of shares of any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock in an election provided for by this paragraph (3) (herein called a "Preferred Director") shall continue to serve as such director for the full term for which he shall have been elected, notwithstanding that prior to the end of such term a default in preference dividends shall cease to exist. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for such director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at a meeting of the stockholders, or of the holders of shares of the Corporation's preferred stock, called for that purpose. So long as a default in any preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall
                                                                              6
exist (other than any Voting Preferred) (A) any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (B)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (B) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for the removed director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid shall be deemed for all purposes hereto to be a Preferred Director.
         Whenever the term of office of the Preferred Directors shall end and a default in preference dividends shall no longer exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be reduced by two. For purposes hereof, a "default in preference dividends" on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred whenever the amount of accrued dividends upon such class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock shall be equivalent to six full quarterly dividends or more, and, having so occurred, such default shall be deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all accrued dividends on all such shares of the Corporation's preferred stock of each and every series then outstanding (other than any Voting Preferred or shares of any class or series ranking junior to shares of this Series as to dividends) shall have been paid to the end of the last preceding quarterly dividend period.
          (4)  Without limiting the foregoing, under any circumstances in which the Series would have additional rights under Rhode Island law if the Corporation were incorporated under the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (rather than the Delaware General Corporation Law), holders of shares of the Series shall be entitled to such rights, including, without limitation, voting rights under Chapter 7-1.1-55, voting and notice rights under Chapter 7-1.1-67 and dissenters' rights under Chapters 7-1.1-73 and 7-1.1-74 of the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (as such Chapters may be amended from time to time).
Reacquired Shares
          (h)  . Shares of this Series are equal in rank and preference with all other series of the Preferred Stock (other than the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C) outstanding on the date of original issue of the shares of this Series and are senior in rank and preference to the Common Stock and the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C of the Corporation.
Relation to Existing Preferred Classes of Stock
          (i)  . For purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:
Relation to Other Preferred Classes of Stock
                                                                          7
 
       (1)   prior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of this Series;
       (2)   on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates or redemption or liquidation prices per share or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of this Series, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of this Series; and
       (3)   junior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such class or classes.
                                                                                  8
 
                                                                            BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
                                                                                    By:                                                                                           Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  
/s/ James H. Hance, Jr.
ATTEST:
Corporate Secretary
/s/ Rachel R. Cummings_
(Corporate Seal)  

                Except as described below in this paragraph, the "Treasury Bill Rate" for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period (as defined below)) for three-month U.S. Treasury bills, as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board (as defined below) during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly           (g)  . Shares of this Series which have been issued and reacquired through redemption or purchase shall, upon compliance with an applicable provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued but only as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board.                                                                                            12            
CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
OF
FIXED/ADJUSTABLE RATE CUMULATIVE
PREFERRED STOCK
OF
Bank of America Corporation
(Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware Corporation Law)
         Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on January 28, 2004:
        RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, without par value (the "Preferred Stock") and hereby states the designation and number thereof and fixes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows:
       (a)  . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock shall be "Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock" (hereinafter called this "Series") and the number of shares constituting this Series is Eight Hundred Five Thousand (805,000).
Designation
       (b)  .
Dividend Rate
(1)     The holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive dividends thereon at a rate of 6.60% per annum computed on the basis of an issue price thereof of $250 per share, and no more, payable quarterly out of the funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of dividends. Such dividends shall be cumulative from the date of original issue of such shares and shall be payable, when, as and if declared by the Board, on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 2004 (a "Dividend Payment Date") through April 1, 2006. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record date, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board. Dividends on account of arrears for any past quarters may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend
                                                                                    1
payment date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board.
          After April 1, 2006, dividends on this Series will be payable quarterly, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof on each Dividend Payment Date at the Applicable Rate from time to time in effect. The Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to .50% plus the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined below under "Adjustable Rate Dividends"), as determined in advance of such dividend period. The Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will not be less than 7.0% nor greater than 13.0% (without taking into account any adjustments as described below in subsection (3) of this Section (b)).
          (2)   Except as provided below in this paragraph, the "Applicable Rate" per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to .50% plus the Effective Rate (as defined below), but not less than 7.0% nor greater than 13.0% (without taking into account any adjustments as described below in subsection (3) of this Section (b)). The "Effective Rate" for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined below) for such dividend period. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason:
         (i)   any one of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate cannot be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be equal to the higher of whichever two of such rates can be so determined;
        (ii)  only one of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be equal to whichever such rate can be so determined; or
        (iii)   none of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for the preceding dividend period will be continued for such dividend period.
                                                                                           2
per annum market discount rate during any such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for three-month U.S. Treasury bills, as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum market discount rate for three-month U.S. Treasury bills is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the U.S. Treasury bills then having remaining maturities of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such rates, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government Department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason no such U.S. Treasury Bill Rates are published as provided above during such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum market discount rates based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of marketable non-interest-bearing U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days from the date of each such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Treasury Bill Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum market discount rates based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of marketable interest-bearing U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation.
             Except as described below in this paragraph, the "Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate" for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yields (as defined below) (or the one weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield during such Calendar Period, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Ten Year
                                                                                       3
Average Yields (or the one weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield, if only such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum Ten Year Average Yield is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum average yields to maturity (or the one weekly per annum average yield to maturity, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities (as defined below)) then having remaining maturities of not less than eight nor more than twelve years, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such yields, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum average yields to maturity based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) with a final maturity date not less than eight nor more than twelve years from the date of each such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation.
          Except as described below in this paragraph, the "Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate" for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yields (as defined below) (or the one weekly per annum Thirty Year Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yield during such Calendar Period, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yields (or the one weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yield, if only one such yield is  
                                                                                       4
published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum Thirty Year Average Yield is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum average yields to maturity (or the one weekly per annum average yield to maturity, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) then having remaining maturities of not less than twenty-eight nor more than thirty years, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such yields, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum average yields to maturity based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) with a final maturity date not less than twenty-eight nor more than thirty years from the date of such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation.
           The Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate will each be rounded to the nearest five hundredths of a percent.
           The Applicable Rate with respect to each dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be calculated as promptly as practicable by the Corporation according to the appropriate method described above. The Corporation will cause notice of each Applicable Rate to be enclosed with the dividend payment checks next mailed to the holders of this Series.
           As used above, the term "Calendar Period" means a period of fourteen calendar days; the term "Federal Reserve Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the term "Special Securities" means securities which can, at the option of the holder, be surrendered at face value in payment of any Federal estate tax or which provide tax benefits to the holder and are priced to reflect such tax benefits or which were originally issued at a deep or substantial discount; the term "Ten Year Average Yield" means the average yield to maturity for actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (adjusted to constant maturities of ten years); and the term "Thirty Year Average Yield" means the average yield to maturity for actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (adjusted to constant maturities of thirty years.)
          (3)  If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), are enacted that change the percentage of the dividends received deduction (currently 70%) as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision (the "Dividends Received Percentage"), the amount of each dividend payable per share of this Series for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as described above (before adjustment) by a factor which shall be the number
                                                                                     5
determined in accordance with the following formula (the "DRD Formula"), and rounding the result to the nearest cent:
                                                                  1 - .35(1-.70)/1 - .35(1 - DRP)
           For the purposes of the DRD Formula, "DRP" means the Dividends Received Percentage applicable to the dividend in question. No amendment to the Code, other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give rise to an adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation shall receive either an unqualified opinion of independent recognized tax counsel or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not apply to dividends payable on shares of this Series, then any such amendment shall not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD Formula. The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable as so adjusted and as certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the Corporation shall be final and not subject to review.
          If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage is enacted after a dividend payable on a Dividend Payment Date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such Dividend Payment Date will not be increased; but instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage) and (y) the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date, will be payable to holders of record on the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date in addition to any other amounts payable on such date.
          (4)   No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the Preferred Stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to this Series for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on this Series for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of this Series and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series, all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on this Series and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other preferred stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of this Series shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stocks, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on this Series. No interest, or sum of money in
                                                                                        6
lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on this Series which may be in arrears.
         (5)  So long as any shares of this Series are outstanding, no dividend (other than a dividend in Common Stock or in any other stock ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation and other than as provided in subsection (4) of this Section (b)) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other stock ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock nor any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of this Series shall have been paid for all past dividend payment periods.
        (6)  Dividends payable on this Series for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(c)   .
Redemption
        (1)   (A) The shares of this Series shall not be redeemable prior to April 1, 2006. On and after April 1, 2006, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of this Series, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price or $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption.
       (B) In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed pursuant to subsection (1)(A), the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board or by any other method as may be determined by the Board in its sole discretion to be equitable.
       (2)   (A) Notwithstanding subsection (1) above, if the Dividends Received Percentage is equal to or less than 40% and, as a result, the amount of dividends on the shares of this Series payable on any Dividend Payment Date will be or is adjusted upwards as described in Section (b)(2) above, the Corporation, at its Option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the outstanding shares of this Series; provided, that within sixty days of the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage to 40% or less, the Corporation sends notice to holders of shares of this Series of such redemption in accordance with subsection (3) below.
         (B) Any redemption of this Series in accordance with this subsection (2) shall be at the applicable redemption price set forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) thereon to the date fixed for  
                                                                                          7
redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the Dividends Received Percentage.      
            (3)   In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of this Series pursuant to subsections (1) or (2) above, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date.
          (4)  Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of this Series so called for redemption under either subsection (1) or (2) above shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof.
        (5)  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section (c), if any dividends on this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of this Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of this Series.
(d)   .
Liquidation Rights
        (1)   Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive and be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or
                                                                                         8
distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or on any other class of stock ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, the amount of $250 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.
        (2)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property or business of the Corporation nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section (d).
        (3)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of this Series of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section (d), the holders of this Series as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
        (4)  In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of shares of this Series upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Section (d), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of this Series upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of this Series, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
           (e)  . The holders of shares of this Series shall not have any rights herein to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation.
Conversion or Exchange
           (f)  . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers, either general or special, except that:
Voting
              (1)   Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series shall vote together as a separate class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any Certificate of the Voting Powers, Designations, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional or Other Special Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, or any similar document relating to any series of Preferred Stock) which would adversely affect the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of this Series;
                                                                              9
          (2)   Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series and all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Stock shall vote together as a single class without regard to series, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting, increasing or validating the creation, authorization or issue of any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking prior to the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, or the reclassification of any authorized stock of the Corporation into any such prior shares, or the creation, authorization or issue of any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such prior shares.
        (3)   If, at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, a default in preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation (other than any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock expressly entitled to elect additional directors to the Board by a vote separate and distinct from the vote provided for in this paragraph (3) ("Voting Preferred")) shall exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two (without duplication of any increase made pursuant to the terms of any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock other than any Voting Preferred) and the holders of the Corporation's preferred stock of all classes and series (other than any such Voting Preferred) shall have the right at such meeting, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock and the Voting Preferred, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships. Such right shall continue until there are no dividends in arrears upon shares of any class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock ranking prior to or on a parity with shares of this Series as to dividends (other than any Voting Preferred). Each director elected by the holders of shares of any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock in an election provided for by this paragraph (3) (herein called a "Preferred Director") shall continue to serve as such director for the full term for which he shall have been elected, notwithstanding that prior to the end of such term a default in preference dividends shall cease to exist. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for such director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at a meeting of the stockholders, or of the holders of shares of the Corporation's preferred stock, called for that purpose. So long as a default in any preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall exist (other than any Voting Preferred) (A) any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (B)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (B) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for the removed director's election, voting together as a single
                                                                                     10
class without regard to class or series, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid shall be deemed for all purposes hereto to be a Preferred Director.
Whenever the term of office of the Preferred Directors shall end and a default in preference dividends shall no longer exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be reduced by two. For purposes hereof, a "default in preference dividends" on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred whenever the amount of accrued dividends upon such class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock shall be equivalent to six full quarterly dividends or more, and, having so occurred, such default shall be deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all accrued dividends on all such shares of the Corporation's preferred stock of each and every series then Outstanding (other than any Voting Preferred or shares of any class or series ranking junior to shares of this Series as to dividends) shall have been paid to the end of the last preceding quarterly dividend period.
            (4)  Without limiting the foregoing, under any circumstances in which the Series would have additional rights under Rhode Island law if the Corporation were incorporated under the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (rather than the Delaware General Corporation Law), holders of shares of the Series shall be entitled to such rights, including, without limitation, voting rights under Chapter 7-1.1-55, voting and notice rights under Chapter 7-1.1-67 and dissenters' rights under Chapters 7-1.1-73 and 7-1.1-74 of the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (as such Chapters may be amended from time to time).
Reacquired Shares
          (h)  . Shares of this Series are equal in rank and preference with all other series of the Preferred Stock (other than the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C) outstanding on the date of original issue of the shares of this Series and are senior in rank and preference to the Common Stock and the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C of the Corporation.
Relation to Existing Preferred Classes of Stock
          (i)  . For purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or classes of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank:
Relation to Other Preferred Classes of Stock
           (1)   prior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of this Series;
                                                                            11
 
         (2)   on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates or redemption or liquidation prices per share or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of this Series, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of this Series; and
         (3)   junior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such class or classes.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designation to be duly executed by James H. Hance, Jr., its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and attested to by Rachel R. Cummings, its Corporate Secretary, and has caused the corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 26th day of March, 2004.
                                                                                   BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
                                                                                   By:                                                                                          Vice Chairman and Chief Financial                                                                                           Officer ATTEST:
/s/ James H. Hance, Jr.
Corporate Secretary
/s/ Rachel R. Cummings_
(Corporate Seal)
13

                                                                                                                                                 A-5
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, As Depositary
AND
THE HOLDERS FROM TIME TO TIME OF
THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS DESCRIBED HEREIN
_______________
Deposit Agreement
     
relating to
Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock
of Fleet Financial Group, Inc.
________________
Dated as of February 21, 1996
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                     Page
   
DEPOSIT AGREEMENT
dated as of February 21, 1996,
among
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.,
a Rhode Island corporation,
Fleet National Bank, a national banking association
and the holders
from time to time of the Receipts
described herein.
              WHEREAS it is desired to provide, as hereinafter set forth in this Deposit Agreement, for the deposit of shares of Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock; $1 par value, of FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. with the Depositary (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes set forth in this Deposit Agreement and for the issuance hereunder of Receipts (as hereinafter defined) evidencing Depositary Shares, each representing a one-fifth interest in respect of the Stock (as hereinafter defined) so deposited;
              WHEREAS the Receipts are to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided in this Agreement;
             NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
          The following definitions shall for all purposes, unless otherwise indicated, apply to the respective terms used in this Deposit Agreement and the Receipts:
         "Certificate" shall mean the certificate of designation filed with the Secretary of State of Rhode Island establishing the Stock as a series of preferred stock of the Company.
       "Company" shall mean Fleet Financial Group, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation, and its successors.
      "Deposit Agreement" shall mean this Deposit Agreement, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
      "Depositary" shall mean Fleet National Bank, a national banking association, and any successor as Depositary hereunder.
      "Depositary Shares" shall mean Depositary Shares, each representing a one-fifth interest in a share of Stock and evidenced by a Receipt.
      "Depositary's Agent" shall mean an agent appointed by the Depositary pursuant to Section 7.05.
      "Depositary's Office" shall mean the principal office of the Depositary in Providence, Rhode Island, at which at any particular time its depositary receipt business shall be administered.
      "Receipt" shall mean one of the depositary receipts issued hereunder, whether in definitive or temporary form.
 
      "Record holder" as applied with respect to a Receipt shall mean the person in whose name a Receipt is registered on the books of the Depositary maintained for such purpose.
                                                                                                                         1
      "Registrar" shall mean any bank or trust company which shall be appointed to register ownership and transfers of Receipts as herein provided.
      "Stock" shall mean shares of the Company's Series VI 6.75 % Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1 par value.
ARTICLE II
FORM OF RECEIPTS, DEPOSIT OF STOCK, EXECUTION AND
DELIVERY, TRANSFER, SURRENDER AND REDEMPTION OF RECEIPTS
      SECTION 2.01. Form and Transfer of Receipts. Definitive Receipts shall be engraved or printed or lithographed on steel-engraved borders and shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A annexed to this Deposit Agreement, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided. Pending the preparation of definitive Receipts, the Depositary, upon the written order of the Company delivered for deposit in compliance with Section 2.02, shall execute and deliver temporary Receipts which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise substantially of the tenor of the definitive Receipts in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the persons executing such Receipts may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Receipts. If temporary Receipts are issued, the Company and the Depositary will cause definitive Receipts to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Receipts, the temporary Receipts shall be exchangeable for definitive Receipts upon surrender of the temporary Receipts at the Depositary's Office, without charge to the holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Receipts, the Depositary shall execute and deliver in exchange therefor definitive Receipts representing the same number of Depositary Shares as represented by the surrendered temporary Receipt or Receipts. Such exchange shall be made at the Company's expense and without any charge therefor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Receipts shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits as definitive Receipts under this Agreement, and with respect to the Stock.
      Receipts shall be executed by the Depositary by the manual signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary; provided, that such signature may be a facsimile if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed and such Receipts are countersigned by manual signature of a duly authorized officer of the Registrar. No Receipt shall be entitled to any benefits under this Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless it shall have been executed manually by a duly authorized officer of the Depositary or, if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed, by facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary and countersigned manually by a duly authorized officer of such Registrar. The Depositary shall record on its books each Receipt so signed and delivered as hereinafter provided.
      Receipts shall be in denominations of any number of whole Depositary Shares.
      Receipts may be endorsed with or have incorporated in the text thereof such legends or recitals or changes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement as may be required by the Depositary or required to comply with any applicable law or any regulation thereunder or with the rules and regulations of any securities exchange upon which the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts may be listed or to conform with any usage with respect thereto, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Receipts are subject.
      Title to Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt which is properly endorsed, or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, shall be transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that until transfer of a Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary as provided in Section 2.04, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder thereof at such time as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in this Deposit Agreement and for all other purposes.
   
      SECTION 2.02. Deposit of Stock; Execution and Delivery of Receipts in Respect Thereof. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Company or purchasers of the Stock from time to time may from time to time deposit shares of Stock under this Deposit Agreement by delivery to the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for the Stock to be deposited, properly endorsed or accompanied, if required by the Depositary, by a duly executed instrument
                                                                                                                            2
of transfer or endorsement, in form satisfactory to the Depositary, together with all such certifications as may be required by the Depositary in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement, and together with a written order directing the Depositary to execute and deliver to, or upon the written order of, the person or persons stated in such order, a Receipt or Receipts for the number of Depositary Shares representing interests in such deposited Stock.
      Deposited Stock shall be held by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office or at such other place or places as the Depositary shall determine.
      Upon receipt by the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for Stock deposited in accordance with the provisions of this Section, together with the other documents required as above specified, and upon recordation of the Stock on the books of the Company in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, or in the name of such other purchaser, as applicable, the Depositary, subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, shall execute and deliver, to or upon the order of the person or persons named in the written order delivered to the Depositary referred to in the first paragraph of this Section, a Receipt for the number of Depositary Shares relating to the Stock so deposited and registered in such name or names as may be requested by such person or persons. The Depositary shall execute and deliver such Receipt at the Depositary's Office or such other offices, if any, as the Depositary may designate. Delivery at other offices shall be at the risk and expense of the person requesting such delivery.
     
SECTION 2.03. Redemption of Stock. Whenever the Company shall elect to redeem shares of Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate, it shall (unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Depositary) give the Depositary not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice of the date of such proposed redemption of Stock in accordance with Section (c) of the Certificate. On the date of such redemption, provided that the Company shall then have paid in full to the Depositary the redemption price of the Stock to be redeemed, the Depositary shall redeem the Depositary Shares relating to such Stock. The Depositary shall mail notice of such redemption and the proposed simultaneous redemption of the number of Depositary Shares relating to the Stock to be redeemed, first-class postage prepaid, not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption of such Stock and Depositary Shares (the "Redemption Date"), to the record holders of the Receipts evidencing the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed, at the addresses of such holders as they appear on the records of the Depositary; but neither failure to mail any such notice to one or more such holders nor any defect in any notice to one or more such holders shall affect the sufficiency of the proceedings for redemption as to other holders. Each such notice shall state (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed and, if less than all the Depositary Shares held by any such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such Depositary Shares held by such holder to be so redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends in respect of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate at the close of business on such Redemption Date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be selected by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Depositary to be equitable.
      Notice having been mailed by the Depositary as aforesaid, from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall have failed to redeem the shares of Stock to be redeemed by it as set forth in the Company's notice provided for in the preceding paragraph) all dividends in respect of the shares of Stock so called for redemption shall cease to accumulate, the Depositary Shares being redeemed from such proceeds shall be deemed no longer to be outstanding, all rights of the holders of Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall, to the extent of such Depositary Shares, cease and terminate and, upon surrender in accordance with such notice of the Receipts evidencing any such Depositary Shares (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by the Depositary at a redemption price per Depositary Share equal to one-fifth of the redemption price per share paid in respect of the shares of Stock plus all money and other property, if any, underlying such Depositary Shares, including all amounts paid by the Company in respect of dividends which on the Redemption Date have accumulated on the shares of Stock to be so redeemed and have not theretofore been paid.
   
      If less than all Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt are called for redemption, the Depositary will deliver to the holder of such Receipt upon its surrender to the Depositary, together with the redemption payment, a new Receipt evidencing the Depositary Shares evidenced by such prior Receipt and not called for redemption.
                                                                                                                   3
      SECTION 2.04.  Registration of Transfer of Receipts. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall register on its books from time to time transfers of Receipts upon any surrender thereof by the holder in person or by duly authorized attorney, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer. Thereupon the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt or Receipts evidencing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as those evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered and deliver such new Receipt or Receipts to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto.
      SECTION 2.05. Split-ups and Combinations of Receipts; Surrender of Receipt and Withdrawal of Stock. Upon surrender of a Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as it may designate for the purpose of effecting a split-up or combination of such Receipt or Receipts, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall execute and deliver a new Receipt or Receipts in the denominations requested, evidencing the aggregate number of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered.
       Any holder of a Receipt or Receipts representing any whole number of deposited shares of Stock may withdraw such shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby by surrendering such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as the Depositary may designate for such withdrawals. Thereafter, without unreasonable delay, the Depositary shall deliver to such holder, or to the person or persons designated by such holder as hereinafter provided, the number of shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented by the Receipt or Receipts so surrendered for withdrawal, but holders of such shares of Stock will not thereafter be entitled to deposit such shares of Stock hereunder or to receive Depositary Shares therefor. If a Receipt delivered by the holder to the Depositary in connection with such withdrawal shall evidence a number of Depositary Shares in excess of the number of deposited Depositary Shares representing the number of shares of Stock to be so withdrawn, the Depositary shall at the same time, in addition to such number of shares of Stock and such money and other property, if any, to be so withdrawn, deliver to such holder, or (subject to Section 2.03) upon his order, a new Receipt evidencing such excess number of Depositary Shares. Delivery of the shares of Stock and money and other property being withdrawn may be made by the delivery of such certificates, documents of title and other instruments as the Depositary may deem appropriate.
       If the shares of Stock and the money and other property being withdrawn are to be delivered to a person or persons other than the record holder of the Receipt or Receipts being surrendered for withdrawal of the Stock, such holder shall execute and deliver to the Depositary a written order so directing the Depositary and the Depositary may require that the Receipt or Receipts surrendered by such holder for withdrawal of such shares of Stock be appropriately endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer.
       Delivery of the shares of Stock and the money and other property, if any, represented by Receipts surrendered for withdrawal shall be made by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, except that, at the request, risk and expense of the holder surrendering such Receipt or Receipts and for the account of the holder thereof, such delivery may be made at such other place as may be designated by such holder.
       SECTION 2.06. Limitations on Execution and Delivery, Transfer, Surrender and Exchange of Receipts. As a condition precedent to the execution and delivery, registration of transfer, split-up, combination, surrender or exchange of any Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may require payment to it of a sum sufficient for the payment (or, in the event that the Depositary or the Company shall have made such payment, the reimbursement to it) of any charges or expenses payable by the holder of a Receipt pursuant to Section 5.07, may require the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish consistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
   
        The deposit of shares of Stock may be refused, the delivery of Receipts against Stock may be suspended, the registration of transfer of Receipts may be refused and the registration of transfer, surrender or exchange of outstanding Receipts may be suspended (i) during any period when the register of stockholders of the Company is closed or (ii) if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of this Deposit Agreement.
                                                                                                                      4
      SECTION 2.07.  Lost Receipts, etc. In case any Receipt shall be mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Depositary in its discretion may execute and deliver a Receipt of like form and tenor in exchange and substitution for such mutilated Receipt, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, lost or stolen Receipt, upon (i) the filing by the holder thereof with the Depositary of evidence satisfactory to the Depositary of such destruction or loss or theft of such Receipt, of the authenticity thereof and of his or her ownership thereof and (ii) the furnishing of the Depositary with reasonable indemnification satisfactory to it.
      SECTION 2.08. Cancellation and Destruction of Surrendered Receipts. All Receipts surrendered to the Depositary or any Depositary's Agent shall be canceled by the Depositary. Except as prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Depositary is authorized to destroy all Receipts so canceled.
ARTICLE III
CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS OF RECEIPTS AND THE COMPANY
      SECTION 3.01. Filing Proofs, Certificates and Other Information. Any holder of a Receipt may be required from time to time to file such proof of residence, or other matters or other information, to execute such certificates and to make such representations and warranties as the Depositary or the Company may reasonably deem necessary or proper. The Depositary or the Company may withhold the delivery, or delay the registration of transfer, redemption or exchange, of any Receipt or the distribution of any dividend or other distribution on the sale of any rights or of the proceeds thereof until such proof or other information is filed or such certificates are executed or such representations and warranties are made.
     SECTION 3.02. Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Changes. Holders of Receipts shall be obligated to make payments to the Depositary of certain charges and expenses, as provided in Section 5.07. Registration of transfer of any Receipt and delivery of all money or other property, if any, represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt may be refused until any such payment due is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or all or any part of the Stock or other property underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such charges or expenses, the holder of such Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
      SECTION 3.03. Warranty as to Stock. The Company hereby represents and warrants that the Stock, when issued, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. Such representation and warranty shall survive the deposit of the Stock and the issuance of Receipts.
ARTICLE IV
THE DEPOSITED SECURITIES; NOTICES
 
      SECTION 4.01. Cash Distributions. Whenever the Depositary shall receive any cash dividend or other cash distribution on Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Section 3.02, distribute to record holders of receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.04 such amount of such dividend or distribution as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders; provided, however, that in case the Company or the Depositary shall be required to withhold and shall withhold from any cash dividend or other cash distribution in respect of the Stock an amount on account of taxes, the amount made available for distribution or distributed in respect of Depositary Shares shall be reduced accordingly. The Depositary shall distribute or make available for distribution, as the case may be, only such amount, however, as can be distributed without attributing to any holder of Depositary Shares a fraction of one cent, and any balance not so distributable shall be held by the Depositary (without liability for interest thereon) and shall be added to and be treated as part of the next sum received by the Depositary for distribution to record holders of Receipts then outstanding.
                                                                                                                     5
      SECTION 4.02.   Distributions Other than Cash. Whenever the Depositary shall receive any distribution other than cash on Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Section 3.02, distribute to record holders of Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.04 such amounts of the securities or property received by it as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders, in any manner that the Depositary may deem equitable and practicable for accomplishing such distribution. If in the opinion of the Depositary such distribution cannot be made proportionately among such record holders, or if for any other reason (including any requirement that the Company or the Depositary withhold an amount on account of taxes) the Depositary deems, after consultation with the Company, such distribution not to be feasible, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, adopt such method as it deems equitable and practicable for the purpose of effecting such distribution, including the sale (at public or private sale) of the securities or property thus received, or any part thereof, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Section 3.02, be distributed or made available for distribution, as the case may be, by the Depositary to record holders of Receipts as provided by Section 4.01 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
       SECTION 4.03. Subscription Rights, Preferences or Privileges. If the Company shall at any time offer or cause to be offered to the persons in whose names Stock is recorded on the books of the Company any rights, preferences or privileges to subscribe for or to purchase any securities or any rights, preferences or privileges of any other nature, such rights, preferences or privileges shall in each such instance be made available by the Depositary to the record holders of Receipts in such manner as the Depositary may determine, either by the issue to such record holders of warrants representing such rights, preferences or privileges or by such other method as may be approved by the Depositary in its discretion with the approval of the Company; provided, however, that (i) if at the time of issue or offer of any such rights, preferences or privileges the Depositary determines that it is not lawful or (after consultation with the Company) not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available to holders of Receipts by the issue of warrants or otherwise, or (ii) if and to the extent so instructed by holders of Receipts who do not desire to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges, then the Depositary, in its discretion (with the approval of the Company, in any case where the Depositary has determined that it is not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available), may, if applicable laws or the terms of such rights, preferences or privileges permit such transfer, sell such rights, preferences or privileges at public or private sale, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall be distributed by the Depositary to the record holders of Receipts entitled thereto as provided by Section 4.01 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
       If registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities to which any rights, preferences or privileges relate is required in order for holders of Receipts to be offered or sold the securities to which such rights, preferences or privileges relate, the Company agrees with the Depositary that it will file promptly a registration statement pursuant to such Act with respect to such rights, preferences or privileges and securities and use its best efforts and take all steps available to it to cause such registration statement to become effective sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges. In no event shall the Depositary make available to the holders of Receipts any right, preference or privilege to subscribe for or to purchase any securities unless and until such a registration statement shall have become effective, or unless the offering and sale of such securities to such holders are exempt from registration under the provisions of such Act.
      If any other action under the laws of any jurisdiction or any governmental or administrative authorization, consent or permit is required in order for such rights, preferences or privileges to be made available to holders of Receipts, the Company agrees with the Depositary that the Company will use its best efforts to take such action or obtain such authorization, consent or permit sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges.
   
      SECTION 4.04. Notice of Dividends, etc.; Fixing of Record Date for Holders of Receipts. Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to Stock, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote or of which holders of Stock are entitled to notice, the Depositary shall in each such instance fix a record date (which shall be the same date as the record date fixed by the Company with respect to the Stock) for the determination of the holders of Receipts who shall be entitled to receive a distribution in respect of such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale
                                                                                                                     6
thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or to receive notice of such meeting or for any other appropriate reasons.
         SECTION 4.05. Voting Rights. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of Stock are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of Receipts a notice which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (ii) a statement informing holders of Receipts that they may instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of Stock underlying their respective Depositary Shares (including an express indication that instructions may be given to the Depositary to give their discretionary proxy to a person designated by the Company) and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the holders of Receipts on such record date, the Depositary shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of whole shares of Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by all Receipts as to which any particular voting instructions are received. The Company hereby agrees to take all action which may be deemed necessary by the Depositary in order to enable the Depositary to vote such Stock or cause such Stock to be voted. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of a Receipt, the Depositary will abstain from voting (but, at its discretion, not from appearing at any meeting with respect to such Stock unless directed to the contrary by the holders of all the Receipts) to the extent of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt.
        SECTION 4.06. Changes Affecting Deposited Securities and Reclassifications, Recapitalizations, etc. Upon any change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of the Stock, or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the Company's assets affecting the Company or to which it is a party, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval of, and shall upon the instructions of, the Company, and (in either case) in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (i) make such adjustments in (a) the fraction of an interest in one share of Stock underlying one Depositary Share and (b) the ratio of the redemption price per Depositary Share to the redemption price of a share of Stock, in each case as may be necessary fully to reflect the effects of such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of Stock, or of such recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation or sale and (ii) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of the Stock as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Stock. In any such case the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Company, execute and deliver additional Receipts, or may call for the surrender of all outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, holders of Receipts shall have the right from and after the effective date of any such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of Stock or any such recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation to surrender such Receipts to the Depositary with instructions to convert, exchange or surrender the shares ofStock attributable thereto into or for, as the case may be, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property and cash into which the Stock attributable to such Receipts was converted or for which such Stock was exchanged or surrendered after giving effect to such transaction.
       SECTION 4.07. Inspection of Reports. The Depositary shall make available for inspection by holders of Receipts at the Depositary's Office, and at such other places as it may from time to time deem advisable, any reports and communications received from the Company which are received by the Depositary as the holder of Stock.
       SECTION 4.08. List of Receipt Holders. Promptly upon request from time to time by the Company, the Depositary shall furnish to it a list, as of a recent date, of the names, addresses and holdings of Stock of all persons in whose names Receipts are registered on the books of the Depositary or Registrar, as the case may be.
   
7
ARTICLE V
THE DEPOSITARY, THE DEPOSITARY'S
AGENTS, THE REGISTRAR AND THE COMPANY
        SECTION 5.01. Maintenance of Offices, Agencies and Transfer Books by the Depositary; Registrar. Upon execution of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall maintain at the Depositary's Office, facilities for the execution and delivery, registration and registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, and at the offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, facilities for the delivery, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, all in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
       The Depositary shall keep books at the Depositary's Office for the registration and registration of transfer of Receipts, which books at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the record holders of Receipts, provided, that any such holder requesting to exercise such right shall certify to the Depositary that such inspection shall be for a proper purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as an Owner of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts.
       The Depositary may close such books, at any time or from time to time, when deemed expedient by it in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder.
       If the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby or the Stock underlying such Depositary Shares shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, appoint a Registrar for registration of such Receipts or Depositary Shares in accordance with any requirements of such Exchange. Such Registrar (which may be the Depositary if so permitted by the requirements of such Exchange) may be removed and a substitute registrar appointed by the Depositary upon the request or with the approval of the Company. If the Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Stock are listed on one or more other stock exchanges, the Depositary will, at the request of the Company, arrange such facilities for the delivery, registration, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of such Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Stock as may be required by law or applicable stock exchange regulation.
       SECTION 5.02. Prevention of or Delay in Performance by the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar or the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of any Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law, or regulation thereunder, of the United States of America or of any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation (including the Certificate), as amended to date (the "Articles of Incorporation"), or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond the control of the relevant party, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented or forbidden from doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar or the Company incur any liability to any holder of a Receipt (i) by reason of any nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in the performance of any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall or may be done or performed; or (ii) by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in this Deposit Agreement except, in case of any such exercise or failure to exercise discretion not caused as aforesaid, if caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party charged with such exercise or failure to exercise.
       SECTION 5.03. Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under this Deposit Agreement to holders of Receipts other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct.
   
       Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts which in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished as often as may be required.
                                                                                                                     8
       Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be liable for any action or any failure to act by it in reliance upon the written advice of legal counsel or accountants, or information from any person presenting Stock for deposit, any holder of a Receipt or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such information. The Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar and the Company may each rely and shall each be protected in acting upon any written notice, request, direction or other document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
       The Depositary shall not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instruction to vote any of the shares of Stock or for the manner or effect of any such vote, as long as any such action or nonaction is in good faith. The Depositary undertakes, and any Registrar shall be required to undertake, to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Agreement, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Depositary or any Registrar. The Depositary will indemnify the Company against any liability which may arise out of acts performed or omitted by the Depositary or its agents due to its or their gross negligence or bad faith. The Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, any Registrar and the Company may own and deal in any class of securities of the Company and its affiliates and in Receipts. The Depositary may also act as transfer agent or registrar of any of the securities of the Company and its affiliates.
       SECTION 5.04. Resignation and Removal of the Depositary; Appointment of Successor Depositary. The Depositary may at any time resign as Depositary hereunder by notice of its election to do so delivered to the Company, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
       The Depositary may at any time be removed by the Company by notice of such removal delivered to the Depositary, such removal to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
       In case the Depositary acting hereunder shall at any time resign or be removed, the Company shall, within 60 days after the delivery of the notice of resignation or removal, as the case may be, appoint a successor Depositary, which shall be a bank or trust company having its principal office in the United States of America and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Every successor Depositary shall execute and deliver to its predecessor and to the Company an instrument in writing accepting its appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Depositary, without any further act or deed, shall become fully vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor and for all purposes shall be the Depositary under this Deposit Agreement, and such predecessor, upon payment of all sums due it and on the written request of the Company, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all rights and powers of such predecessor hereunder, shall duly assign, transfer and deliver all right, title and interest in the Stock and any moneys or property held hereunder to such successor and shall deliver to such successor a list of the record holders of all outstanding Receipts. Any successor Depositary shall promptly mail notice of its appointment to the record holders of Receipts.
       Any corporation into or with which the Depositary may be merged, consolidated or converted shall be the successor of such Depositary without the execution or filing of any document or any further act. Such successor Depositary may authenticate the Receipts in the name of the predecessor Depositary or in the name of the successor Depositary.
       SECTION 5.05. Corporate Notices and Reports. The Company agrees that it will transmit to the record holders of Receipts, in each case at the address furnished to it pursuant to Section 4.08, all notices and reports (including without limitation financial statements) required by law, the rules of any national securities exchange upon which the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts are listed or by the Company's Articles of Incorporation (including the Certificate) to be furnished by the Company to holders of Stock. Such transmission will be at the Company's expense.
   
       SECTION 5.06. Indemnification by the Company. The Company shall indemnify the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and any Registrar against, and hold each of them harmless from, any loss, liability or expense (including the costs and expenses of defending itself) which may arise out of (i) acts performed or omitted in connection with the Agreement and the Receipts (a) by the Depositary, any Registrar or any of their respective agents (including any
                                                                                                                                9
Depositary's Agent), except for any liability arising out of gross negligence or bad faith on the respective parts of any such person or persons, or (b) by the Company or any of its agents, or (ii) the offer, sale or registration of the Receipts or the Stock pursuant to the provisions hereof.
       SECTION 5.07. Charges and Expenses. The Company shall pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. The Company shall pay all charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Stock and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares, and redemption of the Stock at the option of the Company and all withdrawals of the shares of Stock by owners of Depositary Shares. All other transfer and other taxes and governmental charges shall be at the expense of holders of Depositary Shares. If, at the request of a holder of Receipts, the Depositary incurs charges or expenses for which it is not otherwise liable hereunder, such holder will be liable for such charges and expenses. All other charges and expenses of the Depositary and any Depositary's Agent hereunder and of any Registrar (including, in each case, fees and expenses of counsel) incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder will be paid upon consultation and agreement between the Depositary and the Company as to the amount and nature of such charges and expenses. The Depositary shall present its statement for charges and expenses to the Company once every three months or at such other intervals as the Company and the Depositary may agree.
ARTICLE VI
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
       SECTION 6.01. Amendment. The form of the Receipts and any provisions of this Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable; provided, however, that no such amendment which shall materially and adversely alter the rights of the holders of Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. Every holder of an outstanding Receipt at the time any such amendment becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such Receipt, to consent and agree to such amendment and to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby.
        SECTION 6.02. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated by the Company or the Depositary only after (i) all outstanding Depositary Shares shall have been redeemed pursuant to Section 2.03 or (ii) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Stock in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and such distribution shall have been distributed to the holders of Depositary Shares pursuant to Section 4.01 or 4.02, as applicable.
       Upon the termination of this Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations under this Deposit Agreement except for its obligations to the Depositary, and Depositary's Agent and any Registrar under Sections 5.06 and 5.07.
ARTICLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS
      SECTION 7.01. Counterparts. This Deposit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each of the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
       SECTION 7.02. Exclusive Benefit of Parties. This Deposit Agreement is for the exclusive benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors hereunder, and shall not be deemed to give any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim to any other person whatsoever.
     
       SECTION 7.03. Invalidity of Provisions. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Deposit Agreement or in the Receipts should be or become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality
                                                                                                                                  10
and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein or therein shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.
         SECTION 7.04. Notices. Any and all notices to be given to the Company hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to the Company at One Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02211, to the attention of the Treasurer, or at any other address of which the Company shall have notified the Depositary in writing.
        Any and all notices to be given to the Depositary hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or by telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, at 111 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, or at any other address of which the Depositary shall have notified the Company in writing.
        Any and all notices to be given to any record holder of a Receipt hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or by telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to such record holder at the address of such record holder as it appears on the books of the Depositary, or if such holder shall have filed with the Depositary a written request that notices intended for such holder be mailed to some other address, at the address designated in such request.
       Delivery of a notice sent by mail or by telegram or telex shall be deemed to be effected at the time when a duly addressed letter containing the same (or a confirmation thereof in the case of a telegram or telex message) is deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office letter box. The Depositary or the Company may, however, act upon any telegram or telex message received by it from the other or from any holder of a Receipt, notwithstanding that such telegram or telex message shall not subsequently be confirmed by letter or as aforesaid.
       SECTION 7.05. Depositary's Agents. The Depositary may from time to time appoint Depositary's Agents to act in any respect of the Depositary for the purposes of this Deposit Agreement and may at any time appoint additional Depositary's Agents and vary or terminate the appointment of such Depositary's Agents. The Depositary will notify the Company of any such action.
       SECTION 7.06. Holders of Receipts Are Parties. The holders of Receipts from time to time shall be parties to this Deposit Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Receipts by acceptance of delivery thereof.
       SECTION 7.07. Governing Law. THIS DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND THE RECEIPTS AND ALL RIGHTS HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER AND PROVISIONS HEREOF AND THEREOF SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
       SECTION 7.08. Inspection of Deposit Agreement. Copies of this Deposit Agreement shall be filed with the Depositary and the Depositary's Agents and shall be open to inspection during business hours at the Depositary's Office and the respective offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, by any holder of a Receipt.
     
       SECTION 7.09. Headings. The headings of articles and sections in this Deposit Agreement and in the form of the Receipt set forth in Exhibit A hereto have been inserted for convenience only and are not to be regarded as a part of this Deposit Agreement or the Receipts or to have any bearing upon the meaning or interpretation of any provision contained herein or in the Receipts.
                                                                                                                  11
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Depositary have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above set forth, and all holders of Receipts shall become parties hereto by and upon acceptance by them of delivery of Receipts issued in accordance with the terms hereof.
                                                                                                           FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
   
By: /s/ William C. Mutterperl
____________________________________
Title: Senior Vice President
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
By: /s/ John R. Rodehorst
____________________________________
Title: Assistant Treasurer
                                                                                                                         12
EXHIBIT A
THE DEPOSITARY SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS RECEIPT ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS, DEPOSITS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF FLEET NATIONAL BANK, THE DEPOSITARY HEREUNDER, OR OF ANY OTHER BANK OR NONBANK SUBSIDIARY OF FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. AND ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY.
DEPOSITARY RECEIPT
FOR
DEPOSITARY SHARES,
EACH REPRESENTING AN INTEREST IN ONE-FIFTH OF
A SHARE OF SERIES VI 6.75% PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK
($1 Par Value)
OF
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
(Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Rhode Island)
_______________
Depositary Shares
(each Depositary Share represents an interest
in one-fifth of a share of Series VI 6.75%
Perpetual Preferred Stock ($1 par value))
               1. Fleet National Bank, a national banking association with an office at the time of the execution of the Deposit Agreement (as defined below) at 111 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903 (the "Depositary's Office") as Depositary (the "Depositary"), hereby certifies that [ ] is the registered owner of [ ] Depositary Shares ("Depositary Shares") each Depositary Share representing an interest in one-fifth (1/5) of a share of Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1 par value (the "Stock"), of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Rhode Island (the "Company"). Subject to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, each owner of a Depositary Share is entitled, proportionately, through the Depositary to all the rights and preferences of the Stock relating thereto, including dividend, voting, conversion, redemption and liquidation rights contained in the Certificate of Designations adopted by the Company's Board of Directors setting forth the number, terms, powers, designations, rights, preferences, qualifications, restrictions and limitations of the Stock (the "Certificate"), copies of which are on file at the Depositary's Office.
               2. The Deposit Agreement. Depositary Receipts (the "Receipts"), of which this Receipt is one, are made available upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Deposit Agreement, dated as of February 21, 1996 (the "Deposit Agreement"), among the Company, the Depositary and all holders from time to time of Receipts. The Deposit Agreement (copies of which are on file at the Depositary's Office) sets forth the rights of holders of Receipts and the rights and duties of the Depositary and the Company in respect of the Stock deposited, and any and all other property and cash deposited from time to time thereunder. The statements made on the face and the reverse of this Receipt are summaries of certain provisions of the Deposit Agreement and are subject to the detailed provisions thereof, to which reference is hereby made. Unless otherwise expressly herein provided, all defined terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Deposit Agreement.
               3. Redemption. Whenever the Company shall be permitted and shall elect, under the Certificate, to redeem shares of the Stock, it shall give the Depositary not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice thereof. The Depositary shall mail notice of such redemption and the simultaneous redemption of the corresponding Depositary Shares not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the holders of record of Receipts representing
                                                                                                 A-1
the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed. Each such notice shall state: (a) the date of such proposed redemption; (b) the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed; (c) the redemption price (which shall include full cumulative dividends thereon to the redemption date); (d) the place or places where Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (e) that dividends in respect of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate at the close of business on such redemption date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be selected by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Depositary to be equitable. From and after the date set for redemption, all dividends in respect of the Depositary Shares so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, such Depositary Shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of Receipts representing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall cease and terminate. From and after the redemption date, upon surrender in accordance with the redemption notice of the Receipts representing any such Depositary Shares (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by the Depositary at the redemption price per share equal to one- fifth (1/5) of the redemption price per share paid in respect of the shares of Stock plus any money or other property relating thereto.
          4. Transfer, Split-ups, Combinations, Surrender of Receipts. This Receipt is transferable on the books of the Depositary upon surrender of this Receipt to the Depositary, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, and upon such transfer, the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto, as provided in the Deposit Agreement. This Receipt may be split into other Receipts or combined with other Receipts into one Receipt, representing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as the Receipt or Receipts surrendered. Any holder of this Receipt may surrender this Receipt at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices that the Depositary may designate to withdraw shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, underlying the Depositary Shares represented by this Receipt. As a condition precedent to any transfer or surrender for exchange of this Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may require payment of certain charges or expenses or the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish consistent with the provisions of the Deposit Agreement.
         5. Suspension of Delivery, Transfer, etc. The transfer or surrender of this Receipt may be suspended during any period when the register of stockholders of the Company is closed or if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any agent of the Depositary, or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement.
         6. Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Charges. If any tax or other governmental charge shall become payable by or on behalf of the Depositary with respect to this Receipt, such tax (including transfer taxes, if any) or governmental charge shall be payable by the holder hereof. Transfer of this Receipt may be refused until such payment is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or all or any part of the Stock or other property relating to this Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such tax or charge, the holder of this Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
          7. Warranty by Company. The Company has warranted that the Stock when issued, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
 
         8. Amendment. The form of the Receipts and any provisions of the Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable, provided, however, that no such amendment which shall materially and adversely alter the rights of the holders of Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. A holder of a Receipt at the time any such amendment so becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such receipt, to consent and agree to such amendment and to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby.
                                                                                        A-2
         9. Charges of Depositary. The Company will pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements, and all charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Stock and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares and redemption of the Stock at the option of the Company. All other transfer and other taxes and other governmental charges shall be at the expense of holders of Depositary Shares. All other charges and expenses of the Depositary and any agent of the Depositary will be paid upon consultation and agreement between the Depositary and the Company.
        10. Title to Receipts. This Receipt (and the Depositary Shares evidenced hereby), when properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, is transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that until transfer of a Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder hereof at such time as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in the Deposit Agreement, and for all other purposes.
        11. Dividends and Distributions. Whenever the Depositary receives any cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Stock, the Depositary will, subject to the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, make such distribution to the Receipt holders as nearly as practicable in proportion to the number of Depositary Shares held by them; provided, however, that the amount distributed will be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the Company or the Depositary on account of taxes. Other distributions received on the Stock may be distributed to holders of Receipts as provided in the Deposit Agreement.
        12. Fixing of Record Date. Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to Stock, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote or of which holders of Stock are entitled to notice, the Depositary shall in each instance fix a record date (which shall be the record date fixed by the Company with respect to the Stock), for the determination of the holders of Receipts who shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or who shall be entitled to notice of such meeting.
        13. Voting Rights. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of Receipts a notice which shall contain (a) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (b) a statement informing holders of Receipts that they may instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of Stock relating to their respective Depositary Shares and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of a holder of a Receipt on such record date, the Depositary shall endeavor, insofar as practicable, to vote or cause to be voted the amount of Stock relating to such Receipt in accordance with the instructions set forth in such request. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of a Receipt, the Depositary will abstain from voting (but, at its discretion, not from appearing at any meeting with respect to such Stock unless directed to the contrary by the holders of Receipts) to the extent of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt.
        14. Changes Affecting Deposited Securities. Upon any change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of the Stock or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation affecting the Company or to which it is a party, or upon the sale of all or substantially all the Company's assets, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval of the Company, and in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (a) make such adjustments in (i) the fraction of an interest in one share of Stock underlying one Depositary Share and (ii) the ratio of the redemption price of a share of Stock, in each case as may be necessary fully to reflect the effect of such change and (b) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of the Stock as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Stock. In any such case the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Company, execute and deliver additional Receipts, or may call for the surrender of outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities.
 
        15. Liability and Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to
                                                                                             A-3
any liability under the Deposit Agreement to any holder of any Receipt, other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of any Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law or regulation thereunder of the United States of America or any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (including the Certificate) or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond their control, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented or forbidden from doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of the Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar or the Company incur any liability to any holder of a Receipt by reasons of nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in performance of any act or thing which by the terms of the Deposit Agreement it is provided shall or may be done or performed, or by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in the Deposit Agreement, other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under the Deposit Agreement to holders of Receipts other than to use its best judgment and good faith in the performance of such duties as are specifically set forth in the Deposit Agreement. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Stock, the Depositary Shares or theReceipts, which in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability, unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished. The Deposit Agreement contains various other exculpatory, indemnification and related provisions, to which reference is hereby made.
          16. Resignation and Removal of Depositary. The Depositary may at any time (a) resign by written notice of its election to do so delivered to the Company, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment, or (b) be removed by the Company effective upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment.
          17. Termination of Deposit Agreement. The Deposit Agreement may be terminated by the Company or the Depositary only upon or after the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) all outstanding Depositary Shares shall have been redeemed or (b) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Stock in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and such distribution shall have been distributed to the holders of Receipts. Upon the termination of the Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations thereunder except for its obligations to the Depositary with respect to indemnification, charges and expenses.
         18. Governing Law. THIS RECEIPT AND THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND ALL RIGHTS HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER AND PROVISIONS HEREOF AND THEREOF SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
         This receipt shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose, unless this Receipt shall have been authenticated manually or, if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed, by facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary and, if authenticated by facsimile signature of the Depositary, shall have been countersigned manually by such Registrar by the signature of a duly authorized officer.
 
          THE DEPOSITARY IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VALIDITY OF ANY DEPOSITED STOCK. THE DEPOSITARY ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CORRECTNESS OF THE FOREGOING DESCRIPTION WHICH CAN BE TAKEN AS A STATEMENT OF THE COMPANY SUMMARIZING CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT WHICH APPEARS IN THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS. THE DEPOSITARY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS AS TO THE VALIDITY, GENUINENESS OR SUFFICIENCY OF ANY STOCK AT ANY TIME DEPOSITED WITH THE DEPOSITARY HEREUNDER OR OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES, AS TO THE VALIDITY OR SUFFICIENCY OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT, AS TO THE VALUE OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES OR AS TO ANY RIGHT, TITLE OR INTEREST OF THE RECORDHOLDERS OF THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS TO THE DEPOSITARY SHARES.
                                                                                            A-4
          A COPY OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND A FULL STATEMENT OF THE DESIGNATION, RELATIVE RIGHTS, INTERESTS, PREFERENCES AND RESTRICTIONS OF THE STOCK UNDERLYING THE DEPOSITARY SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS RECEIPT AND OF EACH CLASS OR SERIES OF STOCK THAT THE COMPANY IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE WILL BE FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY, WITHOUT CHARGE, TO EACH HOLDER OF A RECEIPT UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY, ONE FEDERAL STREET, BOSTON, MA 02211.
Dated:
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
Depositary
 
By
-------------------------------
Authorized Signature
____________________
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws and regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not
                 as tenants in common
UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - __________Custodian__________
                                              (Cust)                                (Minor)
                                           under Uniform Gift to Minors
                                            Act______________________
                                                                      (State)
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ______________________________________hereby sell,
assign and transfer unto
________________________________________________________________________________
Please Print or Type Name and Address Including Zip Code of Assignee
________________________________________________________________________________
Insert Social Security or Other
Identifying Number of Assignee
 
_______________________________________
|
   
______________________________________________________________________Depositary
Shares represented by the written Receipt, and do hereby irrevocably constitute
and appoint
________________________________________________________________________Attorney
to transfer the said Receipts on the books of the within-named Dispositary with
full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:______________________________ Signature_____________________________
                                                                                                        NOTE: The signature of this
                                                                                                        assignment must correspond
                                                                                                        with the name(s) as written
                                                                                                        upon the face of the Receipt
                                                                                                        in every particular, without
                                                                                                       alteration or enlargement, or
                                                                                                       any change whatsoever.
       

AMENDMENT TO THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION AND EQUISERVE, INC.
        This Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock of Fleet Financial Group, Inc. dated February 21, 1996 (the "Deposit Agreement") is entered into between Bank of America Corporation, as successor to FleetBoston Financial Corporation and Fleet Financial Group, Inc., and EquiServe, Inc., as successor to First Chicago, NBD and Fleet National Bank.
        The parties agree as follows:
         1.   All references to "Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock" should be replaced with references                 to "Bank of America 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock."
         2.   All references to Rhode Island and the laws of Rhode Island should be replaced with Delaware and                the laws of Delaware.
         3.   All other terms of the Deposit Agreement will remain in effect.  
        This Amendment shall be effective at 12:01 a.m. April 1, 2004.
                                                                                                     Bank of America Corporation
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Name: Jane R. Smith                                                                                                      Title: Vice President
/s/ Jane R. Smith
                                                                                                      EquiServe, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Name: Georgia F. Lonkart                                                                                                       Title: Senior Managing Director
/s/ Georgia F. Lonkart

                                                                                                                 A-5             The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws and regulations:
   
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, As Depositary
AND
THE HOLDERS FROM TIME TO TIME OF
THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS DESCRIBED HEREIN
----------------
Deposit Agreement
Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative
Preferred Stock
of Fleet Financial Group, Inc.
----------------
 
Dated as of April 1, 1996
TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                       &nbs p;              Page
DEPOSIT AGREEMENT dated as of April 1, 1996,
among
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC., a Rhode Island corporation, Fleet National Bank, a national banking association and the holders from time to time of the Receipts described herein.
           WHEREAS it is desired to provide, as hereinafter set forth in this Deposit Agreement, for the deposit of shares of Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock; $1 par value, of FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. with the Depositary (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes set forth in this Deposit Agreement and for the issuance hereunder of Receipts (as hereinafter defined) evidencing Depositary Shares, each representing a one-fifth interest in respect of the Stock (as hereinafter defined) so deposited;
         WHEREAS the Receipts are to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided in this Agreement;
         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
     The following definitions shall for all purposes, unless otherwise indicated, apply to the respective terms used in this Deposit Agreement and the Receipts:
      "Certificate" shall mean the certificate of designation filed with the Secretary of State of Rhode Island establishing the Stock as a series of preferred stock of the Company.
       "Company" shall mean Fleet Financial Group, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation, and its successors.
       "Deposit Agreement" shall mean this Deposit Agreement, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
       "Depositary" shall mean Fleet National Bank, a national banking association, and any successor as Depositary hereunder.
       "Depositary Shares" shall mean Depositary Shares, each representing a one-fifth interest in a share of Stock and evidenced by a Receipt.
       "Depositary's Agent" shall mean an agent appointed by the Depositary pursuant to Section 7.05.
       "Depositary's Office" shall mean the principal office of the Depositary in Providence, Rhode Island, at which at any particular time its depositary receipt business shall be administered.
       "Receipt" shall mean one of the depositary receipts issued hereunder, whether in definitive or temporary form.
       "Record holder" as applied with respect to a Receipt shall mean the person in whose name a Receipt is registered on the books of the Depositary maintained for such purpose.  
                                                                                              1
       "Registrar" shall mean any bank or trust company which shall be appointed to register ownership and transfers of Receipts as herein provided.
       "Stock" shall mean shares of the Company's Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, $1 par value.
ARTICLE II
FORM OF RECEIPTS, DEPOSIT OF STOCK, EXECUTION AND DELIVERY, TRANSFER, SURRENDER AND REDEMPTION OF RECEIPTS
        SECTION 2.01. Form and Transfer of Receipts. Definitive Receipts shall be engraved or printed or lithographed on steel-engraved borders and shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A annexed to this Deposit Agreement, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided. Pending the preparation of definitive Receipts, the Depositary, upon the written order of the Company delivered for deposit in compliance with Section 2.02, shall execute and deliver temporary Receipts which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise substantially of the tenor of the definitive Receipts in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the persons executing such Receipts may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Receipts. If temporary Receipts are issued, the Company and the Depositary will cause definitive Receipts to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Receipts, the temporary Receipts shall be exchangeable for definitive Receipts upon surrender of the temporary Receipts at the Depositary's Office, without charge to the holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Receipts, the Depositary shall execute and deliver in exchange therefor definitive Receipts representing the same number of Depositary Shares as represented by the surrendered temporary Receipt or Receipts. Such exchange shall be made at the Company's expense and without any charge therefor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Receipts shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits as definitive Receipts under this Agreement, and with respect to the Stock.
       Receipts shall be executed by the Depositary by the manual signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary; provided, that such signature may be a facsimile if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed and such Receipts are countersigned by manual signature of a duly authorized officer of the Registrar. No Receipt shall be entitled to any benefits under this Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless it shall have been executed manually by a duly authorized officer of the Depositary or, if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed, by facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary and countersigned manually by a duly authorized officer of such Registrar. The Depositary shall record on its books each Receipt so signed and delivered as hereinafter provided.
      Receipts shall be in denominations of any number of whole Depositary Shares.
      Receipts may be endorsed with or have incorporated in the text thereof such legends or recitals or changes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement as may be required by the Depositary or required to comply with any applicable law or any regulation thereunder or with the rules and regulations of any securities exchange upon which the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts may be listed or to conform with any usage with respect thereto, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Receipts are subject.
       Title to Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt which is properly endorsed, or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, shall be transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that until transfer of a Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary as provided in Section 2.04, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder thereof at such time as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in this Deposit Agreement and for all other purposes.
       SECTION 2.02. Deposit of Stock; Execution and Delivery of Receipts in Respect Thereof. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Company or purchasers of the Stock from time to time may from time to time deposit shares of Stock under this Deposit Agreement by delivery to the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for the Stock to be deposited, properly endorsed or accompanied, if required by the Depositary, by a duly executed instrument  
                                                                                             2
of transfer or endorsement, in form satisfactory to the Depositary, together with all such certifications as may be required by the Depositary in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement, and together with a written order directing the Depositary to execute and deliver to, or upon the written order of, the person or persons stated in such order, a Receipt or Receipts for the number of Depositary Shares representing interests in such deposited Stock.
       Deposited Stock shall be held by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office or at such other place or places as the Depositary shall determine.
       Upon receipt by the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for Stock deposited in accordance with the provisions of this Section, together with the other documents required as above specified, and upon recordation of the Stock on the books of the Company in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, or in the name of such other purchaser, as applicable, the Depositary, subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, shall execute and deliver, to or upon the order of the person or persons named in the written order delivered to the Depositary referred to in the first paragraph of this Section, a Receipt for the number of Depositary Shares relating to the Stock so deposited and registered in such name or names as may be requested by such person or persons. The Depositary shall execute and deliver such Receipt at the Depositary's Office or such other offices, if any, as the Depositary may designate. Delivery at other offices shall be at the risk and expense of the person requesting such delivery.
       SECTION 2.03. Redemption of Stock. Whenever the Company shall elect to redeem shares of Stock in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate, it shall (unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Depositary) give the Depositary not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice of the date of such proposed redemption of Stock in accordance with Section (c) of the Certificate. On the date of such redemption, provided that the Company shall then have paid in full to the Depositary the redemption price of the Stock to be redeemed, the Depositary shall redeem the Depositary Shares relating to such Stock. The Depositary shall mail notice of such redemption and the proposed simultaneous redemption of the number of Depositary Shares relating to the Stock to be redeemed, first-class postage prepaid, not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption of such Stock and Depositary Shares (the "Redemption Date"), to the record holders of the Receipts evidencing the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed, at the addresses of such holders as they appear on the records of the Depositary; but neither failure to mail any such notice to one or more such holders nor any defect in any notice to one or more such holders shall affect the sufficiency of the proceedings for redemption as to other holders. Each such notice shall state (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed and, if less than all the Depositary Shares held by any such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such Depositary Shares held by such holder to be so redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends in respect of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate at the close of business on such Redemption Date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be selected by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Depositary to be equitable.
       Notice having been mailed by the Depositary as aforesaid, from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Company shall have failed to redeem the shares of Stock to be redeemed by it as set forth in the Company's notice provided for in the preceding paragraph) all dividends in respect of the shares of Stock so called for redemption shall cease to accumulate, the Depositary Shares being redeemed from such proceeds shall be deemed no longer to be outstanding, all rights of the holders of Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall, to the extent of such Depositary Shares, cease and terminate and, upon surrender in accordance with such notice of the Receipts evidencing any such Depositary Shares (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by the Depositary at a redemption price per Depositary Share equal to one-tenth of the redemption price per share paid in respect of the shares of Stock plus all money and other property, if any, underlying such Depositary Shares, including all amounts paid by the Company in respect of dividends which on the Redemption Date have accumulated on the shares of Stock to be so redeemed and have not theretofore been paid.
      If less than all Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt are called for redemption, the Depositary will deliver to the holder of such Receipt upon its surrender to the Depositary, together with the redemption payment, a new Receipt evidencing the Depositary Shares evidenced by such prior Receipt and not called for redemption.  
                                                                                        3
         SECTION 2.04. Registration of Transfer of Receipts. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall register on its books from time to time transfers of Receipts upon any surrender thereof by the holder in person or by duly authorized attorney, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer. Thereupon the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt or Receipts evidencing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as those evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered and deliver such new Receipt or Receipts to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto.
         SECTION 2.05. Split-ups and Combinations of Receipts; Surrender of Receipt and Withdrawal of Stock. Upon surrender of a Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as it may designate for the purpose of effecting a split-up or combination of such Receipt or Receipts, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall execute and deliver a new Receipt or Receipts in the denominations requested, evidencing the aggregate number of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered.
         Any holder of a Receipt or Receipts representing any whole number of deposited shares of Stock may withdraw such shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby by surrendering such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as the Depositary may designate for such withdrawals. Thereafter, without unreasonable delay, the Depositary shall deliver to such holder, or to the person or persons designated by such holder as hereinafter provided, the number of shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented by the Receipt or Receipts so surrendered for withdrawal, but holders of such shares of Stock will not thereafter be entitled to deposit such shares of Stock hereunder or to receive Depositary Shares therefor. If a Receipt delivered by the holder to the Depositary in connection with such withdrawal shall evidence a number of Depositary Shares in excess of the number of deposited Depositary Shares representing the number of shares of Stock to be so withdrawn, the Depositary shall at the same time, in addition to such number of shares of Stock and such money and other property, if any, to be so withdrawn, deliver to such holder, or (subject to Section 2.03) upon his order, a new Receipt evidencing such excess number of Depositary Shares. Delivery of the shares of Stock and money and other property being withdrawn may be made by the delivery of such certificates, documents of title and other instruments as the Depositary may deem appropriate.
       If the shares of Stock and the money and other property being withdrawn are to be delivered to a person or persons other than the record holder of the Receipt or Receipts being surrendered for withdrawal of the Stock, such holder shall execute and deliver to the Depositary a written order so directing the Depositary and the Depositary may require that the Receipt or Receipts surrendered by such holder for withdrawal of such shares of Stock be appropriately endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer.
       Delivery of the shares of Stock and the money and other property, if any, represented by Receipts surrendered for withdrawal shall be made by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, except that, at the request, risk and expense of the holder surrendering such Receipt or Receipts and for the account of the holder thereof, such delivery may be made at such other place as may be designated by such holder.
      SECTION 2.06. Limitations on Execution and Delivery, Transfer, Surrender and Exchange of Receipts. As a condition precedent to the execution and delivery, registration of transfer, split-up, combination, surrender or exchange of any Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may require payment to it of a sum sufficient for the payment (or, in the event that the Depositary or the Company shall have made such payment, the reimbursement to it) of any charges or expenses payable by the holder of a Receipt pursuant to Section 5.07, may require the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish consistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
      The deposit of shares of Stock may be refused, the delivery of Receipts against Stock may be suspended, the registration of transfer of Receipts may be refused and the registration of transfer, surrender or exchange of outstanding Receipts may be suspended (i) during any period when the register of stockholders of the Company is closed or (ii) if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of this Deposit Agreement.  
                                                                                          4
      SECTION 2.07. Lost Receipts, etc. In case any Receipt shall be mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Depositary in its discretion may execute and deliver a Receipt of like form and tenor in exchange and substitution for such mutilated Receipt, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, lost or stolen Receipt, upon (i) the filing by the holder thereof with the Depositary of evidence satisfactory to the Depositary of such destruction or loss or theft of such Receipt, of the authenticity thereof and of his or her ownership thereof and (ii) the furnishing of the Depositary with reasonable indemnification satisfactory to it.
      SECTION 2.08. Cancellation and Destruction of Surrendered Receipts. All Receipts surrendered to the Depositary or any Depositary's Agent shall be canceled by the Depositary. Except as prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Depositary is authorized to destroy all Receipts so canceled.
ARTICLE III
CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS OF RECEIPTS AND THE COMPANY
       SECTION 3.01. Filing Proofs, Certificates and Other Information. Any holder of a Receipt may be required from time to time to file such proof of residence, or other matters or other information, to execute such certificates and to make such representations and warranties as the Depositary or the Company may reasonably deem necessary or proper. The Depositary or the Company may withhold the delivery, or delay the registration of transfer, redemption or exchange, of any Receipt or the distribution of any dividend or other distribution on the sale of any rights or of the proceeds thereof until such proof or other information is filed or such certificates are executed or such representations and warranties are made.
      SECTION 3.02. Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Changes. Holders of Receipts shall be obligated to make payments to the Depositary of certain charges and expenses, as provided in Section 5.07. Registration of transfer of any Receipt and delivery of all money or other property, if any, represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt may be refused until any such payment due is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or all or any part of the Stock or other property underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such charges or expenses, the holder of such Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
     SECTION 3.03. Warranty as to Stock. The Company hereby represents and warrants that the Stock, when issued, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. Such representation and warranty shall survive the deposit of the Stock and the issuance of Receipts.
ARTICLE IV
THE DEPOSITED SECURITIES; NOTICES
     SECTION 4.01. Cash Distributions. Whenever the Depositary shall receive any cash dividend or other cash distribution on Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Section 3.02, distribute to record holders of receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.04 such amount of such dividend or distribution as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders; provided, however, that in case the Company or the Depositary shall be required to withhold and shall withhold from any cash dividend or other cash distribution in respect of the Stock an amount on account of taxes, the amount made available for distribution or distributed in respect of Depositary Shares shall be reduced accordingly. The Depositary shall distribute or make available for distribution, as the case may be, only such amount, however, as can be distributed without attributing to any holder of Depositary Shares a fraction of one cent, and any balance not so distributable shall be held by the Depositary (without liability for interest thereon) and shall be added to and be treated as part of the next sum received by the Depositary for distribution to record holders of Receipts then outstanding.    
                                                                                           5
      SECTION 4.02. Distributions Other than Cash. Whenever the Depositary shall receive any distribution other than cash on Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Section 3.02, distribute to record holders of Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.04 such amounts of the securities or property received by it as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such holders, in any manner that the Depositary may deem equitable and practicable for accomplishing such distribution. If in the opinion of the Depositary such distribution cannot be made proportionately among such record holders, or if for any other reason (including any requirement that the Company or the Depositary withhold an amount on account of taxes) the Depositary deems, after consultation with the Company, such distribution not to be feasible, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, adopt such method as it deems equitable and practicable for the purpose of effecting such distribution, including the sale (at public or private sale) of the securities or property thus received, or any part thereof, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Section 3.02, be distributed or made available for distribution, as the case may be, by the Depositary to record holders of Receipts as provided by Section 4.01 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
       SECTION 4.03. Subscription Rights, Preferences or Privileges. If the Company shall at any time offer or cause to be offered to the persons in whose names Stock is recorded on the books of the Company any rights, preferences or privileges to subscribe for or to purchase any securities or any rights, preferences or privileges of any other nature, such rights, preferences or privileges shall in each such instance be made available by the Depositary to the record holders of Receipts in such manner as the Depositary may determine, either by the issue to such record holders of warrants representing such rights, preferences or privileges or by such other method as may be approved by the Depositary in its discretion with the approval of the Company; provided, however, that (i) if at the time of issue or offer of any such rights, preferences or privileges the Depositary determines that it is not lawful or (after consultation with the Company) not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available to holders of Receipts by the issue of warrants or otherwise, or (ii) if and to the extent so instructed by holders of Receipts who do not desire to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges, then the Depositary, in its discretion (with the approval of the Company, in any case where the Depositary has determined that it is not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available), may, if applicable laws or the terms of such rights, preferences or privileges permit such transfer, sell such rights, preferences or privileges at public or private sale, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall be distributed by the Depositary to the record holders of Receipts entitled thereto as provided by Section 4.01 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
      If registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the securities to which any rights, preferences or privileges relate is required in order for holders of Receipts to be offered or sold the securities to which such rights, preferences or privileges relate, the Company agrees with the Depositary that it will file promptly a registration statement pursuant to such Act with respect to such rights, preferences or privileges and securities and use its best efforts and take all steps available to it to cause such registration statement to become effective sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges. In no event shall the Depositary make available to the holders of Receipts any right, preference or privilege to subscribe for or to purchase any securities unless and until such a registration statement shall have become effective, or unless the offering and sale of such securities to such holders are exempt from registration under the provisions of such Act.
      If any other action under the laws of any jurisdiction or any governmental or administrative authorization, consent or permit is required in order for such rights, preferences or privileges to be made available to holders of Receipts, the Company agrees with the Depositary that the Company will use its best efforts to take such action or obtain such authorization, consent or permit sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges.
      SECTION 4.04. Notice of Dividends, etc.; Fixing of Record Date for Holders of Receipts. Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to Stock, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote or of which holders of Stock are entitled to notice, the Depositary shall in each such instance fix a record date (which shall be the same date as the record date fixed by the Company with respect to the Stock) for the determination of the holders of Receipts who shall be entitled to receive a distribution in respect of such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale    
                                                                                         6
thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or to receive notice of such meeting or for any other appropriate reasons.
      SECTION 4.05. Voting Rights. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of Stock are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of Receipts a notice which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (ii) a statement informing holders of Receipts that they may instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of Stock underlying their respective Depositary Shares (including an express indication that instructions may be given to the Depositary to give their discretionary proxy to a person designated by the Company) and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the holders of Receipts on such record date, the Depositary shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of whole shares of Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by all Receipts as to which any particular voting instructions are received. The Company hereby agrees to take all action which may be deemed necessary by the Depositary in order to enable the Depositary to vote such Stock or cause such Stock to be voted. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of a Receipt, the Depositary will abstain from voting (but, at its discretion, not from appearing at any meeting with respect to such Stock unless directed to the contrary by the holders of all the Receipts) to the extent of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt.
       SECTION 4.06. Changes Affecting Deposited Securities and Reclassifications, Recapitalizations, etc. Upon any change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of the Stock, or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the Company's assets affecting the Company or to which it is a party, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval of, and shall upon the instructions of, the Company, and (in either case) in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (i) make such adjustments in (a) the fraction of an interest in one share of Stock underlying one Depositary Share and (b) the ratio of the redemption price per Depositary Share to the redemption price of a share of Stock, in each case as may be necessary fully to reflect the effects of such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of Stock, or of such recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation or sale and (ii) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of the Stock as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Stock. In any such case the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Company, execute and deliver additional Receipts, or may call for the surrender of all outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, holders of Receipts shall have the right from and after the effective date of any such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of Stock or any such recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation to surrender such Receipts to the Depositary with instructions to convert, exchange or surrender the shares ofStock attributable thereto into or for, as the case may be, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property and cash into which the Stock attributable to such Receipts was converted or for which such Stock was exchanged or surrendered after giving effect to such transaction.
        SECTION 4.07. Inspection of Reports. The Depositary shall make available for inspection by holders of Receipts at the Depositary's Office, and at such other places as it may from time to time deem advisable, any reports and communications received from the Company which are received by the Depositary as the holder of Stock.
        SECTION 4.08. List of Receipt Holders. Promptly upon request from time to time by the Company, the Depositary shall furnish to it a list, as of a recent date, of the names, addresses and holdings of Stock of all persons in whose names Receipts are registered on the books of the Depositary or Registrar, as the case may be.
                                                                                               7
ARTICLE V
THE DEPOSITARY, THE DEPOSITARY'S AGENTS, THE REGISTRAR AND THE COMPANY
       SECTION 5.01. Maintenance of Offices, Agencies and Transfer Books by the Depositary; Registrar. Upon execution of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall maintain at the Depositary's Office, facilities for the execution and delivery, registration and registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, and at the offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, facilities for the delivery, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, all in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
      The Depositary shall keep books at the Depositary's Office for the registration and registration of transfer of Receipts, which books at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the record holders of Receipts, provided, that any such holder requesting to exercise such right shall certify to the Depositary that such inspection shall be for a proper purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as an Owner of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts.
      The Depositary may close such books, at any time or from time to time, when deemed expedient by it in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder.
      If the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby or the Stock underlying such Depositary Shares shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Company, appoint a Registrar for registration of such Receipts or Depositary Shares in accordance with any requirements of such Exchange. Such Registrar (which may be the Depositary if so permitted by the requirements of such Exchange) may be removed and a substitute registrar appointed by the Depositary upon the request or with the approval of the Company. If the Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Stock are listed on one or more other stock exchanges, the Depositary will, at the request of the Company, arrange such facilities for the delivery, registration, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of such Receipts, such Depositary Shares or such Stock as may be required by law or applicable stock exchange regulation.
     SECTION 5.02. Prevention of or Delay in Performance by the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar or the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of any Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law, or regulation thereunder, of the United States of America or of any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation (including the Certificate), as amended to date (the "Articles of Incorporation"), or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond the control of the relevant party, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented or forbidden from doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar or the Company incur any liability to any holder of a Receipt (i) by reason of any nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in the performance of any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall or may be done or performed; or (ii) by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in this Deposit Agreement except, in case of any such exercise or failure to exercise discretion not caused as aforesaid, if caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party charged with such exercise or failure to exercise.
     SECTION 5.03. Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under this Deposit Agreement to holders of Receipts other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct.
     Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts which in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished as often as may be required.    
                                                                                    8
      Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be liable for any action or any failure to act by it in reliance upon the written advice of legal counsel or accountants, or information from any person presenting Stock for deposit, any holder of a Receipt or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such information. The Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar and the Company may each rely and shall each be protected in acting upon any written notice, request, direction or other document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
     The Depositary shall not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instruction to vote any of the shares of Stock or for the manner or effect of any such vote, as long as any such action or nonaction is in good faith. The Depositary undertakes, and any Registrar shall be required to undertake, to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Agreement, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Depositary or any Registrar. The Depositary will indemnify the Company against any liability which may arise out of acts performed or omitted by the Depositary or its agents due to its or their gross negligence or bad faith. The Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, any Registrar and the Company may own and deal in any class of securities of the Company and its affiliates and in Receipts. The Depositary may also act as transfer agent or registrar of any of the securities of the Company and its affiliates.
     SECTION 5.04. Resignation and Removal of the Depositary; Appointment of Successor Depositary. The Depositary may at any time resign as Depositary hereunder by notice of its election to do so delivered to the Company, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
     The Depositary may at any time be removed by the Company by notice of such removal delivered to the Depositary, such  removal to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
     In case the Depositary acting hereunder shall at any time resign or be removed, the Company shall, within 60 days after the delivery of the notice of resignation or removal, as the case may be, appoint a successor Depositary, which shall be a bank or trust company having its principal office in the United States of America and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Every successor Depositary shall execute and deliver to its predecessor and to the Company an instrument in writing accepting its appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Depositary, without any further act or deed, shall become fully vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor and for all purposes shall be the Depositary under this Deposit Agreement, and such predecessor, upon payment of all sums due it and on the written request of the Company, shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all rights and powers of such predecessor hereunder, shall duly assign, transfer and deliver all right, title and interest in the Stock and any moneys or property held hereunder to such successor and shall deliver to such successor a list of the record holders of all outstanding Receipts. Any successor Depositary shall promptly mail notice of its appointment to the record holders of Receipts.
     Any corporation into or with which the Depositary may be merged, consolidated or converted shall be the successor of such Depositary without the execution or filing of any document or any further act. Such successor Depositary may authenticate the Receipts in the name of the predecessor Depositary or in the name of the successor Depositary.
     SECTION 5.05. Corporate Notices and Reports. The Company agrees that it will transmit to the record holders of Receipts, in each case at the address furnished to it pursuant to Section 4.08, all notices and reports (including without limitation financial statements) required by law, the rules of any national securities exchange upon which the Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts are listed or by the Company's Articles of Incorporation (including the Certificate) to be furnished by the Company to holders of Stock. Such transmission will be at the Company's expense.
     SECTION 5.06. Indemnification by the Company. The Company shall indemnify the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and any Registrar against, and hold each of them harmless from, any loss, liability or expense (including the costs and expenses of defending itself) which may arise out of (i) acts performed or omitted in connection with the Agreement and the Receipts (a) by the Depositary, any Registrar or any of their respective agents (including any    
                                                                                           9
Depositary's Agent), except for any liability arising out of gross negligence or bad faith on the respective parts of any such person or persons, or (b) by the Company or any of its agents, or (ii) the offer, sale or registration of the Receipts or the Stock pursuant to the provisions hereof.
        SECTION 5.07. Charges and Expenses. The Company shall pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. The Company shall pay all charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Stock and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares, and redemption of the Stock at the option of the Company and all withdrawals of the shares of Stock by owners of Depositary Shares. All other transfer and other taxes and governmental charges shall be at the expense of holders of Depositary Shares. If, at the request of a holder of Receipts, the Depositary incurs charges or expenses for which it is not otherwise liable hereunder, such holder will be liable for such charges and expenses. All other charges and expenses of the Depositary and any Depositary's Agent hereunder and of any Registrar (including, in each case, fees and expenses of counsel) incident to the performance of their respective obligations hereunder will be paid upon consultation and agreement between the Depositary and the Company as to the amount and nature of such charges and expenses. The Depositary shall present its statement for charges and expenses to the Company once every three months or at such other intervals as the Company and the Depositary may agree.
ARTICLE VI
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
     SECTION 6.01. Amendment. The form of the Receipts and any provisions of this Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable; provided, however, that no such amendment which shall materially and adversely alter the rights of the holders of Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. Every holder of an outstanding Receipt at the time any such amendment becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such Receipt, to consent and agree to such amendment and to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby.
     SECTION 6.02. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated by the Company or the Depositary only after (i) all outstanding Depositary Shares shall have been redeemed pursuant to Section 2.03 or (ii) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Stock in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and such distribution shall have been distributed to the holders of Depositary Shares pursuant to Section 4.01 or 4.02, as applicable.
      Upon the termination of this Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations under this Deposit Agreement except for its obligations to the Depositary, and Depositary's Agent and any Registrar under Sections 5.06 and 5.07.
ARTICLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS
       SECTION 7.01. Counterparts. This Deposit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each of the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
       SECTION 7.02. Exclusive Benefit of Parties. This Deposit Agreement is for the exclusive benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors hereunder, and shall not be deemed to give any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim to any other person whatsoever.
       SECTION 7.03. Invalidity of Provisions. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Deposit Agreement or in the Receipts should be or become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality
                                                                                                 10
and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein or therein shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.
      SECTION 7.04. Notices. Any and all notices to be given to the Company hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to the Company at One Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02211, to the attention of the Treasurer, or at any other address of which the Company shall have notified the Depositary in writing.
     Any and all notices to be given to the Depositary hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or by telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, at 111 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, or at any other address of which the Depositary shall have notified the Company in writing.
     Any and all notices to be given to any record holder of a Receipt hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or by telegram or telex confirmed by letter, addressed to such record holder at the address of such record holder as it appears on the books of the Depositary, or if such holder shall have filed with the Depositary a written request that notices intended for such holder be mailed to some other address, at the address designated in such request.
      Delivery of a notice sent by mail or by telegram or telex shall be deemed to be effected at the time when a duly addressed letter containing the same (or a confirmation thereof in the case of a telegram or telex message) is deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office letter box. The Depositary or the Company may, however, act upon any telegram or telex message received by it from the other or from any holder of a Receipt, notwithstanding that such telegram or telex message shall not subsequently be confirmed by letter or as aforesaid.
      SECTION 7.05. Depositary's Agents. The Depositary may from time to time appoint Depositary's Agents to act in any respect of the Depositary for the purposes of this Deposit Agreement and may at any time appoint additional Depositary's Agents and vary or terminate the appointment of such Depositary's Agents. The Depositary will notify the Company of any such action.
      SECTION 7.06. Holders of Receipts Are Parties. The holders of Receipts from time to time shall be parties to this Deposit Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Receipts by acceptance of delivery thereof.
     SECTION 7.07. Governing Law. THIS DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND THE RECEIPTS AND ALL RIGHTS HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER AND PROVISIONS HEREOF AND THEREOF SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
     SECTION 7.08. Inspection of Deposit Agreement. Copies of this Deposit Agreement shall be filed with the Depositary and the Depositary's Agents and shall be open to inspection during business hours at the Depositary's Office and the respective offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, by any holder of a Receipt.
      SECTION 7.09. Headings. The headings of articles and sections in this Deposit Agreement and in the form of the Receipt set forth in Exhibit A hereto have been inserted for convenience only and are not to be regarded as a part of this Deposit Agreement or the Receipts or to have any bearing upon the meaning or interpretation of any provision contained herein or in the Receipts.  
                                                                                                    11
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Depositary have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above set forth, and all holders of Receipts shall become parties hereto by and upon acceptance by them of delivery of Receipts issued in accordance with the terms hereof.
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.  
By: /s/ William C. Mutterperl __________________________________ Title: Senior Vice President
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
By: /s/ John R. Rodehorst ____________________________________ Title: Assistant Treasurer        
            12
     
EXHIBIT A
        THE DEPOSITARY SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS RECEIPT ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS, DEPOSITS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF FLEET NATIONAL BANK, THE DEPOSITARY HEREUNDER, OR OF ANY OTHER BANK OR NONBANK SUBSIDIARY OF FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. AND ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY.
DEPOSITARY RECEIPT FOR DEPOSITARY SHARES, EACH REPRESENTING AN INTEREST IN ONE-FIFTH OF A SHARE OF SERIES VII FIXED/ADJUSTABLE RATE CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK ($1 Par Value)
OF
FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. (Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Rhode Island) _______________
Depositary Shares (each Depositary Share represents an interest in one-fifth of a share of Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock ($1 par value))
CUSIP NO. 338915 77 0
         1. Fleet National Bank, a national banking association with an office at the time of the execution of the Deposit Agreement (as defined below) at 111 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903 (the "Depositary's Office") as Depositary (the "Depositary"), hereby certifies that [ ] is the registered owner of [ ] Depositary Shares ("Depositary Shares") each Depositary Share representing an interest in one-fifth (1/5) of a share of Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, $1 par value (the "Stock"), of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Rhode Island (the "Company"). Subject to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, each owner of a Depositary Share is entitled, proportionately, through the Depositary to all the rights and preferences of the Stock relating thereto, including dividend, voting, conversion, redemption and liquidation rights contained in the Certificate of Designations adopted by the Company's Board of Directors setting forth the number, terms, powers, designations, rights, preferences, qualifications, restrictions and limitations of the Stock (the "Certificate"), copies of which are on file at the Depositary's Office.
      2. The Deposit Agreement. Depositary Receipts (the "Receipts"), of which this Receipt is one, are made available upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Deposit Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1996 (the "Deposit Agreement"), among the Company, the Depositary and all holders from time to time of Receipts. The Deposit Agreement (copies of which are on file at the Depositary's Office) sets forth the rights of holders of Receipts and the rights and duties of the Depositary and the Company in respect of the Stock deposited, and any and all other property and cash deposited from time to time thereunder. The statements made on the face and the reverse of this Receipt are summaries of certain provisions of the Deposit Agreement and are subject to the detailed provisions thereof, to which reference is hereby made. Unless otherwise expressly herein provided, all defined terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Deposit Agreement.
       3. Redemption. Whenever the Company shall be permitted and shall elect, under the Certificate, to redeem shares of the Stock, it shall give the Depositary not less than 30 nor more than 60 days notice thereof. The Depositary shall mail notice of such redemption and the simultaneous redemption of the corresponding Depositary Shares not less than 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the holders of record of Receipts representing  
                                                                                           A-1
the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed. Each such notice shall state: (a) the date of such proposed redemption; (b) the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed; (c) the redemption price (which shall include full cumulative dividends thereon to the redemption date); (d) the place or places where Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (e) that dividends in respect of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accumulate at the close of business on such redemption date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be selected by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Depositary to be equitable. From and after the date set for redemption, all dividends in respect of the Depositary Shares so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, such Depositary Shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of Receipts representing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall cease and terminate. From and after the redemption date, upon surrender in accordance with the redemption notice of the Receipts representing any such Depositary Shares (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by the Depositary at the redemption price per share equal to one- tenth (1/10) of the redemption price per share paid in respect of the shares of Stock plus any money or other property relating thereto.
         4. Transfer, Split-ups, Combinations, Surrender of Receipts. This Receipt is transferable on the books of the Depositary upon surrender of this Receipt to the Depositary, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, and upon such transfer, the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto, as provided in the Deposit Agreement. This Receipt may be split into other Receipts or combined with other Receipts into one Receipt, representing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as the Receipt or Receipts surrendered. Any holder of this Receipt may surrender this Receipt at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices that the Depositary may designate to withdraw shares of Stock and all money and other property, if any, underlying the Depositary Shares represented by this Receipt. As a condition precedent to any transfer or surrender for exchange of this Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Company may require payment of certain charges or expenses or the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Company may establish consistent with the provisions of the Deposit Agreement.
        5. Suspension of Delivery, Transfer, etc. The transfer or surrender of this Receipt may be suspended during any period when the register of stockholders of the Company is closed or if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any agent of the Depositary, or the Company at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement.
        6. Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Charges. If any tax or other governmental charge shall become payable by or on behalf of the Depositary with respect to this Receipt, such tax (including transfer taxes, if any) or governmental charge shall be payable by the holder hereof. Transfer of this Receipt may be refused until such payment is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or all or any part of the Stock or other property relating to this Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such tax or charge, the holder of this Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
       7. Warranty by Company. The Company has warranted that the Stock when issued, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
       8. Amendment. The form of the Receipts and any provisions of the Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Company and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable, provided, however, that no such amendment which shall materially and adversely alter the rights of the holders of Receipts shall be effective unless such amendment shall have been approved by the holders of at least a majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. A holder of a Receipt at the time any such amendment so becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such receipt, to consent and agree to such amendment and to be bound by the Deposit Agreement as amended thereby.    
                                                                                          A-2
        9. Charges of Depositary. The Company will pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements, and all charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Stock and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares and redemption of the Stock at the option of the Company. All other transfer and other taxes and other governmental charges shall be at the expense of holders of Depositary Shares. All other charges and expenses of the Depositary and any agent of the Depositary will be paid upon consultation and agreement between the Depositary and the Company.
       10. Title to Receipts. This Receipt (and the Depositary Shares evidenced hereby), when properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, is transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that until transfer of a Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the record holder hereof at such time as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in the Deposit Agreement, and for all other purposes.
       11. Dividends and Distributions. Whenever the Depositary receives any cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Stock, the Depositary will, subject to the provisions of the Deposit Agreement, make such distribution to the Receipt holders as nearly as practicable in proportion to the number of Depositary Shares held by them; provided, however, that the amount distributed will be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the Company or the Depositary on account of taxes. Other distributions received on the Stock may be distributed to holders of Receipts as provided in the Deposit Agreement.
        12. Fixing of Record Date. Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to Stock, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote or of which holders of Stock are entitled to notice, the Depositary shall in each instance fix a record date (which shall be the record date fixed by the Company with respect to the Stock), for the determination of the holders of Receipts who shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or who shall be entitled to notice of such meeting.
       13. Voting Rights. Upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Stock are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the record holders of Receipts a notice which shall contain (a) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (b) a statement informing holders of Receipts that they may instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of Stock relating to their respective Depositary Shares and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of a holder of a Receipt on such record date, the Depositary shall endeavor, insofar as practicable, to vote or cause to be voted the amount of Stock relating to such Receipt in accordance with the instructions set forth in such request. In the absence of specific instructions from the holder of a Receipt, the Depositary will abstain from voting (but, at its discretion, not from appearing at any meeting with respect to such Stock unless directed to the contrary by the holders of Receipts) to the extent of the Stock underlying the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt.
       14. Changes Affecting Deposited Securities. Upon any change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of the Stock or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, amalgamation or consolidation affecting the Company or to which it is a party, or upon the sale of all or substantially all the Company's assets, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval of the Company, and in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (a) make such adjustments in (i) the fraction of an interest in one share of Stock underlying one Depositary Share and (ii) the ratio of the redemption price of a share of Stock, in each case as may be necessary fully to reflect the effect of such change and (b) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of the Stock as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Stock. In any such case the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Company, execute and deliver additional Receipts, or may call for the surrender of outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities.
         15. Liability and Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Company. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to  
                                                                                             A-3
any liability under the Deposit Agreement to any holder of any Receipt, other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall incur any liability to any holder of any Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law or regulation thereunder of the United States of America or any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (including the Certificate) or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond their control, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Company shall be prevented or forbidden from doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of the Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar or the Company incur any liability to any holder of a Receipt by reasons of nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in performance of any act or thing which by the terms of the Deposit Agreement it is provided shall or may be done or performed, or by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in the Deposit Agreement, other than for its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor the Company assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under the Deposit Agreement to holders of Receipts other than to use its best judgment and good faith in the performance of such duties as are specifically set forth in the Deposit Agreement. Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Company shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Stock, the Depositary Shares or theReceipts, which in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability, unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished. The Deposit Agreement contains various other exculpatory, indemnification and related provisions, to which reference is hereby made.
         16. Resignation and Removal of Depositary. The Depositary may at any time (a) resign by written notice of its election to do so delivered to the Company, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment, or (b) be removed by the Company effective upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment.
         17. Termination of Deposit Agreement. The Deposit Agreement may be terminated by the Company or the Depositary only upon or after the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) all outstanding Depositary Shares shall have been redeemed or (b) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Stock in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and such distribution shall have been distributed to the holders of Receipts. Upon the termination of the Deposit Agreement, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations thereunder except for its obligations to the Depositary with respect to indemnification, charges and expenses.
         18. Governing Law. THIS RECEIPT AND THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND ALL RIGHTS HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER AND PROVISIONS HEREOF AND THEREOF SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
          This receipt shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose, unless this Receipt shall have been authenticated manually or, if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed, by facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary and, if authenticated by facsimile signature of the Depositary, shall have been countersigned manually by such Registrar by the signature of a duly authorized officer.
         THE DEPOSITARY IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VALIDITY OF ANY DEPOSITED STOCK. THE DEPOSITARY ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CORRECTNESS OF THE FOREGOING DESCRIPTION WHICH CAN BE TAKEN AS A STATEMENT OF THE COMPANY SUMMARIZING CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT WHICH APPEARS IN THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS. THE DEPOSITARY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS AS TO THE VALIDITY, GENUINENESS OR SUFFICIENCY OF ANY STOCK AT ANY TIME DEPOSITED WITH THE DEPOSITARY HEREUNDER OR OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES, AS TO THE VALIDITY OR SUFFICIENCY OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT, AS TO THE VALUE OF THE DEPOSITARY SHARES OR AS TO ANY RIGHT, TITLE OR INTEREST OF THE RECORDHOLDERS OF THE DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS TO THE DEPOSITARY SHARES.    
                                                                                    A-4
         A COPY OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND A FULL STATEMENT OF THE DESIGNATION, RELATIVE RIGHTS, INTERESTS, PREFERENCES AND RESTRICTIONS OF THE STOCK UNDERLYING THE DEPOSITARY SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS RECEIPT AND OF EACH CLASS OR SERIES OF STOCK THAT THE COMPANY IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE WILL BE FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY, WITHOUT CHARGE, TO EACH HOLDER OF A RECEIPT UPON WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY, ONE FEDERAL STREET, BOSTON, MA 02110.
Dated:
FLEET NATIONAL BANK Depositary
By ------------------------------- Authorized Signature  
 
____________________
TEN COM - as tenants in common TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not                 as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - __________Custodian__________                                            (Cust)                          (Minor)                                         under Uniform Gift to Minors                                         Act______________________                                                             (State)
        Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ______________________________________hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
________________________________________________________________________________ Please Print or Type Name and Address Including Zip Code of Assignee
________________________________________________________________________________
Insert Social Security or Other Identifying Number of Assignee
_______________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________Depositary Shares represented by the written Receipt, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
________________________________________________________________________Attorney to transfer the said Receipts on the books of the within-named Dispositary with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:______________________________ Signature_____________________________                                                                                          NOTE: The signature of this                                                                                           assignment must correspond                                                                                           with the name(s) as written                                                                                           upon the face of the Receipt                                                                                            in every particular, without                                                                                            alteration or enlargement, or                                                                                            any change whatsoever.

AMENDMENT TO THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT BETWEEN BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION AND EQUISERVE, INC.
         This Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Deposit Agreement relating to Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock of Fleet Financial Group, Inc. dated April 1, 1996 (the "Deposit Agreement") is entered into between Bank of America Corporation, as successor to FleetBoston Financial Corporation and Fleet Financial Group, Inc., and EquiServe, Inc., as successor to First Chicago, NBD and Fleet National Bank.
        The parties agree as follows:
         1.   All references to "Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock" should be replaced                 with references to "Bank of America Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock."
         2.   All references to Rhode Island and the laws of Rhode Island should be replaced with Delaware and                 the laws of Delaware.
         3.   All other terms of the Deposit Agreement will remain in effect.            This Amendment shall be effective at 12:01 a.m. April 1, 2004.
                                                                                           Bank of America Corporation
                                                                                                                                                                                      Name:  Jane R. Smith                                                                                            Title:  Vice President
/s/ Jane R. Smith
                                                                                            EquiServe, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                          Name:  Georgia F. Lonkart                                                                                              Title: Senior Managing Director
/s/ Georgia F. Lonkart


