FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20040507170702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 1, 2004, Bank of America Corporation (the "Company") filed a Form 8-K under Item 2 thereto to report that it had closed its merger (the "Merger") with FleetBoston Financial Corporation ("FleetBoston"). As permitted by Instructions (a)(4) and (b)(2) to Item 7 to Form 8-K, the Company filed a Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 on April 14, 2004 providing the required financial information. This Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 2 is being filed to provide additional financial information.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
The required financial statements of FleetBoston as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
The required financial statements of FleetBoston as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.5 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: May 7, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires otherwise, all references in these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements to "FleetBoston," "we," "us," "our" or similar references mean FleetBoston Financial Corporation. As of March 31, 2004, we were organized along five principal lines of business: Personal Financial Services; Regional Commercial Financial Services and Investment Management; National Commercial Financial Services; International Banking; and Capital Markets, and had approximately $200 billion in assets.
Basis of Presentation.
 
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements accompanying these notes are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of the results of operations in these financial statements have been made. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions in the application of certain accounting policies that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. You should read these condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes together with the financial information in our 2003 10-K, which we previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or "SEC." We have reclassified certain amounts reported in prior periods to conform to current period classifications. Information provided in these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.
 
During 2002, effective for stock options granted subsequent to January 1, 2002, we adopted the fair value accounting provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or "SFAS," No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," and elected to account for this adoption prospectively. We continue to account for stock options granted prior to January 1, 2002 using the intrinsic value method under previously issued accounting standards, under which no compensation expense is recorded.
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
The following table presents net income and earnings per share, as reported, and on a pro forma basis as if the fair value accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123 had been applied to all stock-based awards granted since the standard's effective date.
 
 
 
 
 
As we disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2003 10-K, in December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or "FASB," issued a revision to its Interpretation No. 46, entitled "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," or "Interpretation 46R," which provided additional accounting guidance with respect to variable interest entities, or "VIEs." During the first quarter of 2004, we fully adopted the provisions of Interpretation 46R for all of our VIEs. This adoption did not result in the consolidation of any additional VIEs. In addition, the deconsolidation of our statutory business trusts and related trust preferred securities was deemed appropriate.
Recent Accounting Developments.
 
NOTE 2. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
On April 1, 2004, we merged with Bank of America, a global financial services company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, with Bank of America the surviving company. Bank of America had consolidated total assets of approximately $816 billion at March 31, 2004. The merger was accounted for by Bank of America using the purchase method of accounting, and approximately 1,068 million shares of FleetBoston common stock were exchanged for approximately 593 million shares of Bank of America common stock, based on an exchange ratio of .5553 shares of Bank of America common stock for each share of FleetBoston common stock. In connection with the merger, we recorded $33 million of related costs during the first quarter of 2004, including $25 million of advisory fees, which we recorded in legal and other professional expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of income.
 
NOTE 3. LOANS AND LEASES
 
The following table presents consolidated loan and lease financing balances:
 
 
Consolidated lease financing balances included aggregate investments in leveraged leases of approximately $4 billion at both March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, and aggregate operating leases to corporate customers of $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
At March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, nonperforming assets, or "NPAs," totaled $1.2 billion and $2 billion, respectively, including $1.1 billion of nonperforming loans, or "NPLs," and $160 million of other NPAs at March 31, 2004, compared with $1.6 billion of NPLs and $378 million of other NPAs at December 31, 2003. Total NPAs at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 included $498 million and $1 billion, respectively, related to Argentina. The decline in Argentine NPAs resulted primarily from sales of Argentine loans and compensation bonds, both of which are discussed in Note 6.
 
NPAs included impaired loans of $915 million and $1.4 billion at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
The following table presents information related to impaired loans, which we have defined as all commercial and commercial real estate loans on nonaccrual status and troubled debt restructurings.
 
 
 
 
NOTE 4. RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
A summary of activity in the reserve for credit losses follows:
 
 
The reserve for credit losses as of March 31, 2004 and 2003 included $381 million and $681 million, respectively, specifically allocated to Argentina, including an allocated transfer risk reserve, or "ATRR," required by banking regulators of $43 million and $296 million, respectively, at March 31, 2004 and 2003. The decline in the Argentine reserve allocation and ATRR was primarily due to the decline in loans throughout 2003 and our sale of certain Argentine loans in 2004, which is discussed in Note 6.
 
There was no provision for credit losses for the period ended March 31, 2004, as compared to $280 million for the period ended March 31, 2003. No provision was recorded in the current period as we sold a substantial portion of Argentine nonperforming loans, resulting in a net reduction in required reserves, and the portfolio experienced an overall improvement in credit quality due to improved economic conditions.
 
NOTE 5. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The carrying value of goodwill was $4.4 billion at March 31, 2004 and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2003. During the first quarter of 2004, we recorded approximately $142 million of goodwill in connection with our acquisition of Progress Financial Corporation, or "Progress," and no impairment losses were recognized. During the first quarter of 2003, no goodwill was acquired and no impairment losses were recognized.
 
At March 31, 2004, the carrying value of goodwill by major line of business was $1.9 billion for Personal Financial Services, $1.5 billion for Regional Commercial Financial Services and Investment Management, $.6 billion for National Commercial Financial Services, $.3 billion for Capital Markets and $.1 billion for International Banking.
 
The following table presents the gross carrying value and accumulated amortization for significant intangible assets subject to amortization at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003.
 
 
The total net carrying value of all intangible assets subject to amortization, including core deposit intangibles, which are insignificant and are not included in the table above, at March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was $229 million and $235 million, respectively. Related amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 was $21 million and $20 million, respectively. In connection with the Progress acquisition, we recorded a core deposit intangible of approximately $14.7 million.
 
The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was $63 million at both March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003.
 
NOTE 6. COUNTRY RISK  ARGENTINE OPERATIONS
 
This note provides information about significant developments during the first quarter of 2004 concerning our operations in Argentina. More detailed information about these operations, and the overall economic situation in Argentina, is provided in the Country Risk section of Management's Discussion and Analysis in our 2003 10-K.
 
In December 2001, the Argentine government issued an order imposing limitations on the ability of bank customers in Argentina to withdraw funds from their deposit and mutual fund accounts in Argentine banks, known as the "corralito." Since the corralito was issued, a large number of customers of our Argentine operation, or "BankBoston Argentina," have filed complaints in the Argentine courts against BankBoston Argentina seeking to invalidate the corralito on constitutional grounds and withdraw their funds.
 
As a result of the judicial deposit claims, we have recorded approximately $363 million of cumulative pre-tax charges through March 31, 2004. These losses represented the impact of paying depositors
 
 
 
at the current exchange rate versus the 1.40 exchange rate originally used to convert U.S. dollar deposits into pesos as part of the Argentine government's economic measures instituted in early 2002 to deal with that country's economic crisis.
 
During the first quarter of 2004, the banking sector continued to incur losses from judicial claims that allowed depositors to claim from banks the original dollar value of their deposits that the government converted into pesos in 2002. In light of these continued claims and the absence of any action by the Argentine government or judicial system to halt these claims, we recorded an additional $30 million of reserve through a charge to foreign exchange revenue, a component of capital markets-related revenue, to accrue for expected future claims. As of March 31, 2004, the reserve balance of $116 million reflected management's current estimate, after considering various possible outcomes based on current available information and their related consequences, of the aggregate impact of customer deposit claims.
 
During the first quarter of 2004, BankBoston Argentina received a reimbursement of $30 million from the Argentine Central Bank for the early 2002 pesofication of local branch deposits with the Central Bank in excess of required reserves. This reimbursement was recorded in other noninterest income.
 
During 2002, we received U.S. dollar-denominated bonds from the Argentine government as compensation for the impact of their asymmetric pesofication of the balance sheet in 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2003, these compensation bonds, which were nonperforming, were reclassified from securities held to maturity to securities available for sale, and we subsequently sold $52 million of the bonds and recorded aggregate pre-tax gains of $22 million. During the first quarter of 2004, we sold an additional $200 million of the bonds and recorded aggregate pre-tax gains of $100 million in securities gains/losses, a component of capital markets-related revenue. At March 31, 2004, the remaining compensation bonds were carried at an aggregate fair value of $83 million, with a related $25 unrealized gain recorded, net of tax, in other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity.
 
During the first quarter of 2004, the Argentine Central Bank issued a new regulation which modified the previous calculation for determining the denomination of the above-mentioned compensation bonds. This regulation would require BankBoston Argentina to return to the Central Bank a portion of the compensation bonds received during 2002 in exchange for an equivalent amount of peso-denominated bonds. In light of this situation, management assessed the potential impact that the new regulation could have on our Argentine operations and determined that a reserve of $50 million was appropriate as of March 31, 2004. This reserve was recorded through a charge to securities gains/losses.
 
During the first quarter of 2004, we completed the previously disclosed sale of certain Argentine loans with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $390 million, of which two-thirds were nonperforming. The sale resulted in net charge-offs of approximately $25 million.
 
NOTE 7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
In the normal course of business, we enter into numerous agreements that contain features which meet the definition of a guarantee under current accounting standards. A guarantee is defined as a contract that contingently requires us to make payments (either in cash, financial instruments, other assets, shares of our stock or provision of services) to a third party based on specified changes in an underlying variable that is related to an asset, a liability or an equity security of the related party. Significant guarantees provided by FleetBoston to third parties include standby financial and performance letters of credit and financial guarantees, as well as credit derivatives, market value guarantees for customers, and earn-out agreements associated with business combinations. More information about guarantees is provided in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2003 10-K.
 
We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings arising out of, and incidental to, our respective businesses. More information concerning certain of these matters is provided in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2003 10-K and in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Bank of America's first quarter 2004 report on Form 10-Q.
 
In the normal course of business, we are subject to challenges from U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding amounts of tax due. These challenges may alter the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions, or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue Service, or "IRS," is conducting an examination of our federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999, and 2000. During 2003, the IRS completed its examination of our federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996, and 1997, and has issued Notices of Proposed Adjustment with respect to our tax treatment of certain leveraged lease investments that were entered into during the examination years. Management believes that the proposed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with existing law and intends to defend our position.
 
 
 
NOTE 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
A summary of the calculation of earnings per common share follows:
 
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, outstanding common stock options and awards totaling 4.7 million and 83.7 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because the impact of such stock options and awards was antidilutive.
 
NOTE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
We maintain both qualified and nonqualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. The qualified plans are funded in compliance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We also provide certain postretirement health and life insurance benefits for eligible retired domestic employees. Postretirement benefits are accrued over the service lives of the employees. The measurement date for all of our benefit plans is December 31.
 
 
 
The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit expense for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003.
 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Expense
 
 
NOTE 10. LINE OF BUSINESS INFORMATION
 
As of March 31, 2004, we were organized via a customer-focused organizational structure that included five principal lines of business: Personal Financial Services; National Commercial Financial Services; Regional Commercial Financial Services and Investment Management; International Banking; and Capital Markets. Information about these business lines and their supporting business units is provided in Management's Discussion and Analysis and in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2003 10-K.
 
The following tables present financial information for our lines of business for March 31, 2004 and 2003 on a fully taxable equivalent basis. Consolidated net interest income and income taxes include tax-equivalent adjustments of $13 million and $12 million for March 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have reclassified certain information for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 presented in this note to reflect changes in our organizational structure and internal management reporting methodologies implemented subsequent to March 31, 2003.
 
Lines of Business
 
na  not applicable
 
 
 
The following table presents financial information for the supporting business units of each of our principal lines of business.
 
na  not applicable
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present how the combined financial statements of Bank of America and FleetBoston may have appeared had the businesses actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information shows the impact of the merger of Bank of America and FleetBoston on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations under the purchase method of accounting with Bank of America treated as the acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of FleetBoston will be recorded by Bank of America at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger is completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Bank of America and FleetBoston as of and for three months ended March 31, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2004 assumes the merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income gives effect to the merger as if the merger had been completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The merger agreement was announced on October 27, 2003 and provides for each outstanding share of FleetBoston common stock other than shares beneficially owned by FleetBoston and Bank of America to be converted into the right to receive 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock. Shares of FleetBoston preferred stock will be converted on a one-for-one basis into Bank of America preferred stock having the same terms (to the fullest extent possible) as the corresponding FleetBoston preferred stock, except in the case of shares held by preferred stockholders who validly perfect dissenters' appraisal rights. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes of both Bank of America and FleetBoston.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented and had the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions and share repurchases, among other factors, been considered. In addition, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the allocation of the purchase price reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment and may vary materially from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded upon completion of the merger.
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines the historical balance sheets of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on March 31, 2004, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America and FleetBoston assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2003, on a purchase accounting basis.
 
 
 
Note 1Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the merger is included as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The pro forma adjustments included herein reflect the conversion of FleetBoston common stock into Bank of America common stock using an exchange ratio of 0.5553 of a share of Bank of America common stock for each of the 1,068,334,852 shares of FleetBoston common stock exchanged at April 1, 2004, $271 million related to the conversion of 1,082,450 shares of preferred stock and $1.35 billion for the approximately 70 million shares of FleetBoston common stock issuable under outstanding stock options that will convert into Bank of America stock options, direct acquisition costs and the cost of FleetBoston shares already owned by Bank of America. The purchase price of $47.2 billion, includes, direct acquisition costs, the value of stock options, and is based on a per share price for Bank of America common stock of $76.88, which was the average of the closing prices of Bank of America common stock for the period commencing two trading days before, and ending two trading days after, October 27, 2003, the date of the merger agreement. The purchase price was adjusted to reflect the effect of the 15.7 million shares of FleetBoston common stock already owned by Bank of America valued at their historic cost of $457 million. Bank of America preferred stock exchanged was valued using the book value of FleetBoston preferred stock.
 
The merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly, Bank of America's cost to acquire FleetBoston will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including executory contracts and other commitments) of FleetBoston at their respective fair values on the date the merger is completed.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of FleetBoston at their respective fair values and represents management's estimates based on available information. The pro forma adjustments included herein may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined upon completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of FleetBoston's tangible, and identifiable intangible, assets and liabilities as of the completion date. Accordingly, the final purchase accounting adjustments and integration charges may be materially different from the pro forma adjustments presented in this document. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the net assets, commitments, executory contracts and other items of FleetBoston as compared to the information shown in this document may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield and/or amortization of the adjusted assets or liabilities.
 
Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of FleetBoston have been reclassified to conform with Bank of America's historical financial information presentation. Discontinued operations reported in FleetBoston's historical consolidated statement of income have been excluded. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented in this document does not necessarily indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the merger been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined company.
 
Note 2 Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the merger includes the pro forma balance sheet as of March 31, 2004 assuming the merger was completed on March 31, 2004. The pro forma Statements of Income the three months ended March 31, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2003 was prepared assuming the merger was completed on January 1, 2003.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the exchange of 593,246,343 shares of Bank of America common stock with an aggregate fair value of approximately $45.6 billion, the issuance of $271
 
million of Bank of America preferred stock and $1.35 billion for the approximately 70 million shares of FleetBoston common stock issuable under outstanding stock options that converted into Bank of America stock options, direct acquisition costs and the cost of 15.7 million shares of FleetBoston common stock already owned by Bank of America valued at their historic cost of $457 million. Common stock and preferred stock issued in the exchange was valued using the methodology discussed in Note 1 above.
 
Substantially all of the FleetBoston stock options vested upon completion of the merger and converted into Bank of America stock options. The fair value of the Bank of America options issued in exchange for the FleetBoston options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock price and volatility that when changed can materially affect fair value estimates. Accordingly, the model does not necessarily provide for a reliable single measure of the fair value of employee stock options. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the Bank of America stock options to be issued in the exchange for FleetBoston stock options include a risk-free interest rate of 3.80 percent, a dividend yield of 4.16 percent, a weighted average expected life of seven years and volatility of 27 percent. The seven-year term was based on the weighted average expected term to expiration of these options.
 
The allocation of the purchase price follows:
 
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3 Merger Related and Restructuring Expenses
 
In connection with the merger, we have been developing our plan to integrate Bank of America's and FleetBoston's operations. Merger related and restructuring expenses have been estimated to be approximately $1.3 billion pre-tax and are related to system conversion, rebranding, customer communications, and severance and relocation for Bank of America employees of approximately $220 million. The specific details of these plans will continue to be refined over the next several months. Merger related and restructuring expenses will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions and is expected to be incurred over a two year period after completion of the merger. See Note 2 (K) for information related to FleetBoston's severance, relocation and contract termination liabilities.
 
Note 4Estimated Annual Cost Savings
 
The following estimated annual cost savings represent our estimate only and may not be indicative of the actual amount or nature of the cost savings the combined company actually achieves. The below information does not include the impact of possible revenue opportunities. The following table summarizes Bank of America's estimated annual after-tax cost savings when fully phased in after the merger:
 
 
 
Note 5- Capital and Leverage Ratios
 
The pro forma regulatory risk based capital ratios as of March 31, 2004 are Tier 1 of 7.72 percent, Total of 11.27 percent, and a leverage ratio of 5.78 percent. The regulatory risk based capital and leverage ratios represent our estimate only and may not be indicative of the ratios the combined company actually achieves.
 


