FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20051102134631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2005, Bank of America Corporation (the "Registrant") filed a Form 8-K to report that it had entered into a Cancellation Agreement with Brian T. Moynihan pursuant to which Mr. Moynihan's employment agreement was canceled and an Agreement Regarding Participation in the FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP Agreement") pursuant to which Mr. Moynihan's participation in the FleetBoston Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan was frozen. The description of these agreements in the Form 8-K was correct. There was, however, a typographical error in Section 2 of the SERP Agreement previously filed as Exhibit 10.2. An amendment to the SERP Agreement correcting this error is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: November 2, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made by and between Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Bank of America"), and Brian T. Moynihan ("Executive").
 
 
On October 26, 2005, Bank of America and Executive entered into an Agreement Regarding Participation in the FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP Agreement") pursuant to which Executive's participation in the FleetBoston Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement was frozen. This Amendment corrects a typographical error in the SERP Agreement as originally executed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein, Bank of America and Executive do hereby agree that the SERP Agreement is amended by replacing the words "per month" that appear in Section 2 of the SERP Agreement entitled "Amount of Frozen SERP Benefit as of December 31, 2005" with the words "per year."
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and Executive has hereunto set his hand, all on the 1st day of November, 2005. This Amendment is executed in multiple originals, each of which shall be deemed an original hereof, and may be executed in multiple counterparts
 


