FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20050912160413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act.
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act.
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act.
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF PRINCIPAL OFFICER; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICER.
On September 8, 2005, Bank of America Corporation (the Registrant) announced that Marc D. Oken is retiring from his position as Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant, effective immediately. Mr. Oken will remain as an employee of the Registrant through the first quarter 2006.
The Registrant also announced that Alvaro G. de Molina, age 48, was appointed as Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately. Mr. de Molina was most recently the Chief Executive Officer, Banc of America Securities since July 2005. From April 2004 to July 2005, he served as President, Global Capital Markets and Investment Banking. Prior to that time, he served as Treasurer of the Registrant from 2000 to April 2004.
A copy of the related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS.
          
(d)
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
September 8, 2005
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Bank of America today announced that Alvaro G. de Molina, chief executive officer, Banc of America Securities, has been named chief financial officer of the corporation, succeeding Marc Oken. Oken, who has served the company for 16 years, has announced his intention to retire.
CHARLOTTE, NC 
"Marc Oken is a strong leader and has brought great value to our company during his time here," said Kenneth D. Lewis, chairman and chief executive officer. "He built our finance function into one of the best in the country, and successfully engineered one of the largest and smoothest transitions in banking history in the merger of Bank of America and FleetBoston. Marc has served our customers and shareholders with distinction. We appreciate his service, and wish him all the best in the future.
"Al de Molina brings a great deal of talent, leadership and strong experience to his new role as our CFO," continued Lewis. "Al is respected on Wall Street for his proven financial skills and knowledge of the company. Al's combination of experiences as corporate treasurer, chair of our asset/liability committee and president of one of our company's largest businesses makes him uniquely suited to lead the development of our financial strategies and communicate effectively to investors and the analyst community."
De Molina will assume the duties of the chief financial officer immediately, and also will lead the bank's efforts to maximize organic growth by leveraging the company's universal bank model. Because of his market experience, de Molina is uniquely qualified to lead this effort. All of the bank's lines of business will be accountable to him in the execution of this strategy. Critical to this execution is the continued buildout of capabilities in origination, structuring, distribution and market-making, which is underway in GCIB.
Oken will assist in the transition, and will retire in the first quarter of 2006. Mark Werner, Bank of America Global Markets executive, has been named CEO of Banc of America Securities. Werner and de Molina's management team will report to Gene Taylor, president, Bank of America Global Corporate & Investment Banking.
Al de Molina most recently served as chief executive officer of Banc of America Securities, leading the markets and products organizations within Global Corporate & Investment Banking. Prior to this role, de Molina served as president of Global Capital Markets & Investment Banking. He is a member of the Risk & Capital Committee, which sets strategic direction for the company.
About Al de Molina
 
Previously, de Molina was corporate treasurer, chaired the company's asset/liability committee and had management responsibility for all treasury functions, including all investment and funding activities, as well as pensions, insurance and economics. Prior to joining Bank of America, de Molina served in the lead financial role for Emerging Markets at J.P. Morgan. He began his career in 1979 with Price Waterhouse.
Marc Oken was named chief financial officer for Bank of America in April 2004. He also successfully led the Bank of America/FleetBoston Financial Corporation transition from 2003-2005. Previous to his appointment as CFO, Mr. Oken was principal financial executive, a position he held since joining the bank in 1989.
About Marc Oken
From 1981 to 1983, Mr. Oken was a fellow with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), serving as principal advisor to the SEC's chief accountant on financial services industry accounting and disclosure matters. Mr. Oken was a partner with the firm of Price Waterhouse and was associated with that firm from 1974-1981 and 1983-1989.
About Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk-management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving 33 million consumer relationships with more than 5,800 retail banking offices, more than 16,600 ATMs and award-winning online banking with more than 13 million active users. Bank of America is the No. 1 overall Small Business Administration (SBA) lender in the United States and the No. 1 SBA lender to minority-owned small businesses. The company serves clients in 150 countries and has relationships with 98 percent of the U.S. Fortune 500 companies and 85 percent of the Global Fortune 500. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
www.bankofamerica.com
###


