FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20090921165025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2009, Bank of America Corporation (the "Corporation") appointed Charles "Chad" O. Holliday, Jr. to its board of directors (the "Board"), effective September 21, 2009. Mr. Holliday is expected to serve on the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board and a newly formed credit committee of the Board which will become effective on October 27, 2009. Mr. Holliday will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Corporation's non-employee director compensation practices described in the Corporation's Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2009. The initial cash and stock award to be received by Mr. Holliday will be pro rated from the date of appointment to the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders.
A copy of the news release announcing the event described above is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 21, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
September 21, 2009
Investors May Contact:
Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, 1.704.386.5667
Lee McEntire, Bank of America, 1.704.388.6780
Grace Yoon, Bank of America, 1.212.449.7323
Reporters May Contact:
Scott Silvestri, Bank of America, 1.980.388.9921
scott.silvestri@bankofamerica.com
CHARLOTTE  The Bank of America Corporation Board of Directors announced today that Charles "Chad" O. Holliday, Jr. has been elected as a director, effective immediately.
Holliday, 61, is the chairman of the board of directors of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., a position he has held since 1999. He previously served as chief executive officer of DuPont from January 1, 1999 until December 31, 2008. He joined the company in 1970 as an engineer and held various positions throughout his tenure.
"We welcome the wealth of experience and perspective that Chad will bring to the board," said Walter E. Massey, Bank of America chairman. "It's also important to note the board recently has added other directors, including Robert W. Scully, who bring substantial experience in financial services and will offer valuable insights."
Scully, 59, who was elected to the board in August, served as a member of the office of the chairman of Morgan Stanley focusing on the firm's key clients until January 2009, when he retired after nearly 35 years in the financial services industry.
Since 2007, Holliday has served as a member of the board of directors of Deere & Co. and as a member of the board's audit and corporate governance committees. He is chairman emeritus of Catalyst, a leading nonprofit organization dedicated to expanding opportunities for women and business, and chairman of the board of the U.S. Council on Competitiveness, a nonpartisan, non-governmental organization working to ensure U.S. prosperity.
Holliday is a founding member of the International Business Council and a member of the National Academy of Engineering. He also previously served as chairman of the following organizations: the Business Roundtable's Task Force for Environment, Technology and Economy, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, The Business Council, and the Society of Chemical Industry  American Section.
More
Page 2
He received a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from the University of Tennessee and received honorary doctorates from Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, New York and from Washington College in Chestertown, Maryland.
Separately, the board today announced the creation of two new committees. The credit and enterprise risk committees will replace the board's asset quality committee, effective October 27. Holliday will serve on the newly formed credit committee as well as the board's corporate governance committee.
In addition, the board also approved a resolution to set its size at 15 directors, down from 18 directors. All board positions have been filled.
Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 53 million consumer and small business relationships with more than 6,100 retail banking offices, nearly 18,500 ATMs and award-winning online banking with 29 million active users. Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to more than 4 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients in more than 150 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.


