FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20090529165315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 29, 2009, Bank of America Corporation (the "Corporation") announced that Mr. O. Temple Sloan, Jr. has resigned as a member of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Corporation, effective May 26, 2009. His decision to resign was not as a result of any disagreement with the Corporation or its management.
A copy of the news release announcing the event described above is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 29, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
May 29, 2009
Investors May Contact:
Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, 1.704.386.5667
Lee McEntire, Bank of America, 1.704.388.6780
Grace Yoon, Bank of America, 1.212.449.7323
Reporters May Contact:
Scott Silvestri, Bank of America, 1.980.388.9921
scott.silvestri@bankofamerica.com
 
CHARLOTTE  Bank of America Corporation today said that O. Temple Sloan, Jr. has resigned from the Board of Directors, effective May 26, 2009.
Sloan had served the company for 13 years as a director and most recently was the Lead Director. He submitted his resignation to Walter E. Massey, chairman of the Bank of America Board of Directors.
Sloan most recently served as the chairman of both the Executive Committee and Compensation and Benefits Committee. He was also a member of the Corporate Governance Committee.
"Temple has been a trusted adviser who has made an invaluable contribution to the success of our company," said Kenneth D. Lewis, chief executive officer and president. "We will miss his counsel and his leadership."
"We thank Temple for his long and distinguished service to our company," Massey said. "He has been a major contributor as our company moved to a nationwide and then global enterprise."
Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 55 million consumer and small business relationships with more than 6,100 retail banking offices, more than 18,500 ATMs and award-winning online banking with nearly 30 million active users. Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to more than 4 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients in more than 150 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
 


