FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20090303172112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
     On January 2, 2009, Bank of America Corporation ("Bank of America" or the "Registrant") filed a Form 8-K to report under Item 2 thereof that it had closed the merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bank of America into Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch"), with Merrill Lynch continuing as the surviving corporation and as a subsidiary of Bank of America (the "Merrill Lynch Merger"). In response to Item 9.01(b) of such Form 8-K, the Registrant stated that it would file the required pro forma information by amendment. This Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide the required pro forma financial information.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
     This document contains a number of forward-looking statements, including statements about the financial conditions, results of operations, earnings outlook and prospects of Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Countrywide Financial Corporation and the combined company and may include statements for the period following the completion of the Merrill Lynch Merger.
     The forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. The ability of either Bank of America or Merrill Lynch to predict results or the actual effects of its plans and strategies, or those of the combined company, is subject to inherent uncertainty. Factors that may cause actual results or earnings to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include those set forth below:
     Since these forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results will likely differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Table of Contents
     All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the Merrill Lynch Merger or other matters addressed in this document and attributable to Bank of America or Merrill Lynch or any person acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, Bank of America and Merrill Lynch undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Table of Contents
     
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     The audited consolidated balance sheets of Merrill Lynch as of December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006 and the consolidated statements of (loss)/earnings, changes in shareholders' equity, comprehensive (loss)/income and cash flows of Merrill Lynch for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2007, and the notes related thereto, are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
     The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, dated February 25, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 hereto.
     The unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Merrill Lynch as of September 26, 2008 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of (loss)/earnings, changes in shareholders' equity, comprehensive (loss)/income and cash flows of Merrill Lynch for the nine months ended September 26, 2008 and September 28, 2007, and the notes related thereto, are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4.
     The pro forma financial information reflecting the Merrill Lynch Merger is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.7 hereto.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 3, 2009
Table of Contents
     
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT 99.7
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes present the impact of the merger of Bank of America Corporation ("Bank of America") and Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") on January 1, 2009 (the "Merrill Lynch Merger"), as well as the merger of Countrywide Financial Corporation ("Countrywide") into a wholly owned subsidiary of Bank of America on July 1, 2008 (the "Countrywide Merger", and collectively with the Merrill Lynch Merger, the "Mergers") on the companies' respective historical financial positions and results of operations. In the Mergers, Bank of America was treated as the acquirer and the acquired assets and liabilities were recorded by Bank of America at their estimated fair values as of the dates the Mergers were completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Bank of America and Countrywide for the six months ended June 30, 2008, as results of Countrywide are included in the historical Bank of America financial information for the period July 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, assumes the Merrill Lynch Merger was completed on that date. The Bank of America historical balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet includes Countrywide, which was acquired on July 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income gives effect to the Mergers as if they had been completed on January 1, 2008.
     The Merrill Lynch Merger closed on January 1, 2009. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Merrill Lynch common shareholders received 0.8595 of a share of Bank of America common stock in exchange for each share of Merrill Lynch common stock. In addition, Merrill Lynch non-convertible preferred shareholders received Bank of America preferred stock having substantially identical terms. Merrill Lynch convertible preferred stock remains outstanding and is convertible into Bank of America common stock at an equivalent exchange ratio. Additionally, the Countrywide Merger closed on July 1, 2008. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Countrywide common shareholders received 0.1822 of a share of Bank of America common stock in exchange for each share of Countrywide common stock. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with:
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies actually been combined at the beginning of the period presented. Neither does it represent the impact of possible business model changes, nor potential changes to asset valuations due to current market dislocations. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information also does not consider any potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions, and share repurchases, among other factors.
 
     The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines the historical balance sheets of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch assuming the companies had been combined on December 31, 2008, on an acquisition accounting basis. The preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet does not include intercompany eliminations between Merrill Lynch and Bank of America.
 
     The following preliminary unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical statements of income of Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Countrywide assuming the companies had been combined on January 1, 2008, on an acquisition accounting (Merrill Lynch) and purchase accounting (Countrywide) basis.
 
Note 1  Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information related to the Mergers is included for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Merrill Lynch Merger is being accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141 (revised 2007), "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141R) which was effective on January 1, 2009, the date of the Merrill Lynch Merger. The Countrywide Merger has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" which was applicable on July 1, 2008, the date of the Countrywide Merger. The primary changes under SFAS 141R include: the purchase price being based upon Bank of America's closing stock price on the date the merger closed, the loan portfolio will be recorded at fair value and all exit and termination costs will be expensed.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes preliminary estimated adjustments to record the assets and liabilities of Merrill Lynch at their respective estimated fair values and represents management's estimates based on available information. The pro forma adjustments included herein may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after completion of a final analysis to determine the fair values of Merrill Lynch's tangible and identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities.
     Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, and Countrywide have been reclassified to conform to the combined company's classification. For the six months ended June 30, 2008, the Countrywide reporting reclassifications are reflected consistent with the Bank of America year ended December 31, 2008 presentation. Discontinued operations reported in Merrill Lynch's historical consolidated statements of operations have been excluded as this information is not required in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations. Additionally, other adjustments have been included for certain transactions that occurred during the five day stub period between Merrill Lynch's December 26, 2008 year end and Bank of America's December 31, 2008 year end (see footnote 1 of Note 2  Reporting Reclassifications and Other Adjustments for the Merrill Lynch Merger below).
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented in this document for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the results of operations or the combined financial position that would have resulted had the Mergers been completed at the beginning of the applicable period presented, nor the impact of possible business model changes as a result of current market conditions which would impact revenues, expense efficiencies, asset dispositions, share repurchases and other factors. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined companies.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes an adjustment in connection with the Merrill Lynch Merger to record the January 9, 2009 issuance of 400 thousand shares of Bank of America Corporation Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q (Series Q Preferred Stock) and common stock warrants for cash proceeds of $10 billion and the January 16, 2009 issuance of 800 thousand shares of Bank of America Corporation Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series R (Series R Preferred Stock) and common stock warrants for cash proceeds of $20 billion issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") Capital Purchase Program, established as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information excludes any impact of the proposed FDIC and Federal Reserve protection on certain assets. For additional information, see to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Bank of America's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Note 25  Subsequent Events
Note 2  Reporting Reclassifications and Other Adjustments for the Merrill Lynch Merger
 
 
Note 3  Preliminary Purchase Accounting Allocation for the Merrill Lynch Merger
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the Mergers includes the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 assuming the Merrill Lynch Merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement for the year ended December 31, 2008 was prepared assuming the Mergers were completed on January 1, 2008.
     The Merrill Lynch Merger is being accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting; accordingly, Bank of America's cost to acquire Merrill Lynch will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of Merrill Lynch at their respective estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The purchase price was preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as summarized in the following table.
 
(Dollars in billions, except per share amounts)
Merrill Lynch Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
     The preliminary pro forma purchase accounting allocation included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is as follows:
 
 
Note 4  Merger Related Charges for the Merrill Lynch Merger
     In connection with the merger, costs to integrate Bank of America's and Merrill Lynch's operations are currently estimated to be approximately $2 billion after tax or approximately $3 billion pre-tax. Our merger integration decisions will impact certain existing Merrill Lynch facilities (both leased and owned), information systems, supplier contracts and costs associated with the involuntary termination of personnel. As part of our merger integration plan, certain actions regarding existing Bank of America information systems, premises, equipment, benefit plans, supply chain methodologies, supplier contracts and involuntary termination of personnel will be taken. Additionally, included in the costs described above, during the combination of the two companies we will incur additional integration costs consisting of employee retention agreements, conversion costs and incremental communication costs to customers and associates, among other costs. Costs associated with these actions will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions. The execution of combining the two companies is underway and estimated to continue through 2011. These costs will be expensed as incurred.
Note 5  Estimated Annual Cost Savings for the Merrill Lynch Merger
     Estimated annual cost savings of approximately $4 billion after-tax or approximately $7 billion pre-tax, when fully phased in after the merger, represent our estimate only and may not be indicative of the actual amount of the cost savings the combined company actually achieves. These amounts do not include the possible impacts of revenue opportunities. These amounts consist of:
 
 
Note 6  Pro Forma Adjustments for the Countrywide Merger


