FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20090112203927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated October 26, 2008 (the "October Purchase Agreement"), Bank of America Corporation (the "Registrant") sold to the United States Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") 600,000 shares of the Registrant's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N (the "Series N Preferred Stock"), and warrants to purchase 73,075,674 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), for an aggregate purchase price of $15,000,000,000. Simultaneously with the Registrant's entry into the Purchase Agreement, Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. ("Merrill Lynch") entered into an agreement with Treasury (the "Merrill Agreement") which would have allowed Merrill Lynch to sell preferred stock and warrants to Treasury for a purchase price of $10,000,000,000 prior to January 31, 2009, under certain circumstances. Treasury agreed with the Registrant that if the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 15, 2008 by and between Merrill Lynch and the Registrant occurred prior to the closing of the issuance and sale of Merrill Lynch preferred stock and warrants to Treasury as contemplated by the Merrill Agreement, then the Merrill Agreement would be terminated and Treasury would purchase and the Registrant would issue (i) 400,000 additional shares of the Registrant's preferred stock with substantially identical terms as the Series N Preferred Stock and (ii) warrants to purchase 48,717,116 additional shares of Common Stock with an exercise price of $30.79 and substantially identical terms to the prior warrants, for an aggregate purchase price of $10,000,000,000.
In accordance with the October Purchase Agreement, on January 9, 2009 the Registrant entered into a Letter Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with the Treasury, pursuant to which the Registrant agreed to issue and sell 400,000 shares of Bank of America Corporation Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q (the "Series Q Preferred Stock") and to issue warrants to purchase the additional 48,717,116 shares of Common Stock for a purchase price of $10,000,000,000 in cash. The Purchase Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the issuance and sale of the Series Q Preferred Stock, the warrant dated October 28, 2008, which was exercisable for 73,075,674 shares of Common Stock, was surrendered and cancelled pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement and replaced with a warrant to purchase 121,792,790 shares of the Registrant's common stock (the "Warrant") (which represents the 73,075,674 shares represented by such surrendered and cancelled warrant, plus the additional warrants to purchase 48,717,116 shares of Common Stock). The Warrant has a 10-year term expiring in October 2018 and is immediately exercisable upon its issuance, with an exercise price, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, equal to $30.79 per share of the Common Stock. The Warrant is attached as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Series Q Preferred Stock will qualify as Tier 1 capital and will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and 9% per annum thereafter. The Series Q Preferred Stock may be redeemed by the Registrant after three years. Prior to the end of three years, the Series Q Preferred Stock may be redeemed by the Registrant only with proceeds from the sale of qualifying equity securities of the Registrant (a "Qualified Equity Offering"). The restrictions on redemption are set forth in the Certificate of Designations described in Item 5.03 below.
If the Registrant receives aggregate gross cash proceeds of not less than $25,000,000,000 from Qualified Equity Offerings on or prior to December 31, 2009, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to Treasury's exercise of the Warrant will be reduced by one half of the shares represented by the Warrant, taking into account all adjustments, underlying the Warrant. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Treasury has agreed not to exercise voting power with respect to any shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise of the Warrant.
The Series Q Preferred Stock and the Warrant were issued in a private placement exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon the request of Treasury at any time, the Registrant has agreed to promptly enter into a deposit arrangement pursuant to which the Series Q Preferred Stock may be deposited and depositary shares ("Depositary Shares"), representing fractional shares of Series Q Preferred Stock, may be issued. The Registrant has agreed to register or designate a registration statement for the Series Q Preferred Stock, the Warrant, the shares of Common Stock underlying the Warrant (the "Warrant Shares") and Depositary Shares, if any, as soon as practicable after the date of the issuance of the Series Q Preferred Stock and the Warrant. Neither the Series Q Preferred Stock nor the Warrant will be subject to any contractual restrictions on transfer, except that Treasury may only transfer or exercise an aggregate of one-half of the Warrant Shares prior to the earlier of the receipt by the Registrant of aggregate gross cash proceeds of not less than $25,000,000,000 from Qualified Equity Offerings and December 31, 2009.
 
The information set forth under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.02.
 
Upon issuance of the Series Q Preferred Stock on January 9, 2009, the ability of the Registrant to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of its Junior Stock (as defined below) and Parity Stock (as defined below) will be subject to restrictions, including the Registrant's restriction against increasing dividends from the last quarterly cash dividend per share ($0.32) declared on the Common Stock prior to October 14, 2008, without the prior approval of the Treasury. The redemption, purchase or other acquisition of trust preferred securities of the Registrant or its affiliates also will be restricted and shall require the prior approval of the Treasury. These restrictions will terminate on the earlier of (a) the third anniversary of the date of issuance of the Series Q Preferred Stock and (b) the date on which the Series Q Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole or Treasury has transferred all of the Series Q Preferred Stock to third parties. The restrictions described in this paragraph are set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
In addition, pursuant to the Certificate of Designations, the ability of the Registrant to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of its Junior Stock and Parity Stock will be subject to restrictions in the event that the Registrant fails to declare and pay full dividends (or declare and set aside a sum
sufficient for payment thereof) on its Series Q Preferred Stock. These restrictions are set forth in the Certificate of Designations described in Item 5.03.
"Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Registrant the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Registrant. "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Registrant the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Registrant (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
 
On January 8, 2009, the Registrant filed a Certificate of Designations (the "Certificate of Designations") with the Delaware Secretary of State for the purpose of amending its Certificate of Incorporation to fix the designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights of the Series Q Preferred Stock. The Series Q Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share. The Certificate of Designations is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 12, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 141 and 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
Corporation
At meetings duly convened and held by the board of directors of the Corporation (the "") on July 23, 2008 and October 15, 2008, the Board of Directors duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors to act on behalf of the Board of Directors in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate, the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such series of Preferred Stock.
Board of Directors
Committee
Thereafter, on January 7, 2009, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution creating a series of 400,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "" by written consent
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q
, that pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
Part 1. . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q" (the ""). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 400,000.
Designation and Number of Shares
Designated Preferred Stock
Part 2. . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein.
Standard Provisions
Part. 3. . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:
Definitions
(a) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(b) "" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
Dividend Payment Date
(c) "" means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(d) "" means $25,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Amount
(e) "" means $2,500,000,000.
Minimum Amount
(f) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B; (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D; (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding); (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding); (vi) 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H; (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I; (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J; (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K; (x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L; (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M; (xii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N; (xiii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1; (xiv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2; (xv) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3; (xvi) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4; (xvii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5; (xviii) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6; (xix) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7; and (xx) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8.
Parity Stock
(g) "" means October 26, 2008.
Signing Date
(h) "" means the Corporation's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N.
UST Preferred Stock
Part. 4. . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
Certain Voting Matters
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Teresa M. Brenner, its Associate General Counsel, this 7
th
day of January, 2009.
 
 
ANNEX A
Section 1. . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
General Matters
Section 2. . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
Standard Definitions
(a) "" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
Applicable Dividend Rate
(b) "" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
(c) "" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
Business Combination
(d) "" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
Business Day
(e) "" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(f) "" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(g) "" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
(h) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Period
(i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Dividend Record Date
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
Liquidation Preference
 
(k) "" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
Original Issue Date
(l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).
Preferred Director
(m) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
Preferred Stock
(n) "" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances (i) made by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, (ii) to the extent such sales or issuances provided the basis for the redemption of other preferred stock of the Corporation that was originally issued by the Corporation (or any such successor) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or (iii) made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
Qualified Equity Offering
(o) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Share Dilution Amount
(p) "" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
Standard Provisions
(q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Successor Preferred Stock
(r) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
Section 3. .
Dividends
(a) . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20
Rate
i.e.
 
calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "", provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
Dividend Period
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
(b) . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice, that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in
Priority of Dividends
provided
 
Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Share Dilution Amount
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
pro rata
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
 
Section 4. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "").
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
Partial Payment
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 5. .
Redemption
(a) . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the later of (i) the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date and (ii) the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation. On or after the later of (i) the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the
Optional Redemption
 
third anniversary of the Original Issue Date and (ii) the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency and subject to the requirement that all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock shall previously have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption; that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "Minimum Amount" as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor (the "") that was originally issued under the Troubled Asset Relief Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
provided
Successor Preferred Stock
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
(b) . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
No Sinking Fund
(c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of
Notice of Redemption
 
record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
(d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
(e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
(f) . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock ( that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
Status of Redeemed Shares
provided
 
Section 6. . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Conversion
Section 7. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
(b) . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the " and each a ") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned; that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Preferred Stock Directors
"
Preferred Directors
"
Preferred Director
provided
(c) . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
 
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
provided
however
(d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
 
(e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
Section 8. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 9. . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 10. . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
Section 11. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Replacement Certificates
Section 12. . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
ZQ|00000002|BAC|P23|CUS|C0005773733|*COYI|00262552|0627
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q
PAR VALUE $0.01
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q
THIS CERTIFICATE IS TRANSFERABLE IN CANTON, MA AND JERSEY CITY, NJ
Shares
**400000****************
***400000***************
****400000**************
*****400000*************
******400000************
Bank of America
Certificate Number ZQ00000002
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE
***UNITED*STATES*DEPARTMENT*OF*THE*TREASURY*****
THIS CERTIFIES THAT
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
is the owner of
***400000***SHARES*******
**FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND**
CUSIP 060505 45 0
SEE REVERSE FOR CERTAIN DEFINITIONS
TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE
IS RESTRICTED SEE
LEGEND ON REVERSE SIDE.
FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE SHARES OF THE FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Q OF
Bank of America Corporation transferable in person or by duly authorized attorney upon surrender of this certificate properly endorsed. This certificate and the shares represented hereby are subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, all amendments thereto, and the Bylaws of the Corporation, and to the rights, preferences and voting powers of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation now or hereafter outstanding; the terms of all such provisions, rights, preferences and voting powers being incorporated herein by reference. This certificate is not valid until countersigned by the Transfer Agent and registered by the Registrar.
Witness the facsimile seal and the facsimile signatures of the duly authorized officers of the Corporation.
DATED 09-JAN-2009
COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:
COMPUTERSHARE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR,
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Corporate Secretary
By
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
CORPORATE
SEAL
><
54042
Printed by DATA BUSINESS FORMS
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE NOT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS, DEPOSITS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF A BANK AND ARE NOT INSURED BY THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION OR ANY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY.
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT WHILE A REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO IS IN EFFECT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT OR SUCH LAWS. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT IS NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. ANY TRANSFEREE OF THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT EXCEPT (A) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH IS THEN EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) TO THE ISSUER OR (D) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT ARE TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY
TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
UNIF GIFT MIN ACT-
Custodian
(Cust)
(Minor)
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
(State)
JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
UNIF TRF MIN ACT
Custodian (until age )
(Cust)
(Minor)
under Uniform Transfers to Minors Act
(State)
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
For value received,
hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
[PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)
Shares
of the capital stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney
to transfer the said stock on the books of the within named Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
20
Signature(s) Guaranteed: Medallion Guarantee Stamp
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULDbe GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (Banks,
Stockbrokers, Savings and Loan Associations and Credit Unions) WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED
SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM, PURSUANT TO S.E.C. RULE 17Ad-15
Signature :
Signature :
Notice: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name
as written upon the face of the certificate, in every particular,
without alteration or enlargement, or any change whatever.
SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS
THIS IS WATERMARKED PAPER, DO NOT ACCEPT WITHOUT NOTING
WATERMARK. HOLD TO LIGHT TO VERIFY WATERMARK.

Exhibit 4.2
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT WHILE A REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO IS IN EFFECT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT OR SUCH LAWS. THIS INSTRUMENT IS ISSUED SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF A SECURITIES PURCHASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ISSUER OF THESE SECURITIES AND THE INVESTOR REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT. ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID.
1. . Unless the context otherwise requires, when used herein the following terms shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Affiliate
"" means a procedure whereby two independent appraisers, one chosen by the Company and one by the Original Warrantholder, shall mutually agree upon the determinations then the subject of appraisal. Each party shall deliver a notice to the other appointing its appraiser within 15 days after the Appraisal Procedure is invoked. If within 30 days after appointment of the two appraisers they are unable to agree upon the amount in question, a third independent appraiser shall be chosen within 10 days thereafter by the mutual consent of such first two appraisers. The decision of the third appraiser so appointed and chosen shall be given within 30 days after the selection of such third appraiser. If three appraisers shall be appointed and the determination of one appraiser is disparate from the middle determination by more than twice the amount by which the other determination is disparate from the middle determination, then the determination of such appraiser shall be excluded, the remaining two determinations shall be averaged and such average shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Original Warrantholder; otherwise, the average of all three determinations shall be binding upon the Company and the Original Warrantholder. The costs of conducting any Appraisal Procedure shall be borne by the Company.
Appraisal Procedure
"" means the board of directors of the Company, including any duly authorized committee thereof.
Board of Directors
"" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders.
Business Combination
"" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
business day
"" means (A) with respect to any Person that is a corporation or company, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital or capital stock of such Person and (B) with respect to any Person that is not a corporation or company, any and all partnership or other equity interests of such Person.
Capital Stock
"" means, with respect to any Person, its certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
Charter
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Common Stock
"" means the Person whose name, corporate or other organizational form and jurisdiction of organization is set forth in Item 1 of Schedule A hereto.
Company
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
conversion
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
convertible securities
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means the amount set forth in Item 2 of Schedule A hereto.
Exercise Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.
Expiration Time
"" means, with respect to any security or other property, the fair market value of such security or other property as determined by the Board of Directors, acting in good faith or, with respect to Section 14, as determined by the Original Warrantholder acting in good faith. For so long as the Original Warrantholder holds this Warrant or any portion thereof, it may object in writing to the Board of Director's calculation of fair market value within 10 days of receipt of written notice thereof. If the Original Warrantholder and the Company are unable to agree on fair market value during the 10-day period following the delivery of the Original Warrantholder's objection, the Appraisal Procedure may be invoked by either party to determine Fair Market Value by delivering written notification thereof not later than the 30
Fair Market Value
th
day after delivery of the Original Warrantholder's objection.
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Governmental Entities
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
Initial Number
means the date set forth in Item 3 of Schedule A hereto.
"Issue Date"
"" means, with respect to a particular security, on any given day, the last reported sale price regular way or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such day, the average of the last closing bid and ask prices regular way, in either case on the principal national securities exchange on which the applicable securities are listed or admitted to trading, or if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and ask prices as furnished by two members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. selected from time to time by the Company for that purpose. "Market Price" shall be determined without reference to after hours or extended hours trading. If such security is not listed and traded in a manner that the quotations referred to above are available for the period required hereunder, the Market Price per share of Common Stock shall be deemed to be (i) in the event that any portion of the Warrant is held by the Original Warrantholder, the fair market value per share of such security as determined in good faith by the Original Warrantholder or (ii) in all other circumstances, the fair market value per share of such security as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors in reliance on an opinion of a nationally recognized independent investment banking corporation retained by the Company for this purpose and certified in a resolution to the Warrantholder. For the purposes of determining the Market Price of the Common Stock on the "trading day" preceding, on or following the occurrence of an event, (i) that trading day shall be deemed to commence immediately after the regular scheduled closing time of trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time and (ii) that trading day shall end at the next regular scheduled closing time, or if trading is closed at an earlier time, such earlier time (for the avoidance of doubt, and as an example, if the Market Price is to be determined as of the last trading day preceding a specified event and the closing time of trading on a particular day is 4:00 p.m. and the specified event occurs at 5:00 p.m. on that day, the Market Price would be determined by reference to such 4:00 p.m. closing price).
Market Price
"" means a regular quarterly cash dividend on shares of Common Stock out of surplus or net profits legally available therefor (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time), that Ordinary Cash Dividends shall not include any cash dividends paid subsequent to the Issue Date to the extent the aggregate per share dividends paid on the outstanding Common Stock in any quarter exceed the amount set forth in Item 4 of Schedule A hereto, as adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
Ordinary Cash Dividends
provided
"" means the United States Department of the Treasury. Any actions specified to be taken by the Original Warrantholder hereunder may only be taken by such Person and not by any other Warrantholder.
Original Warrantholder
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(B).
Permitted Transactions
 
"" has the meaning given to it in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.
Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13(C).
Per Share Fair Market Value
" means any preferred stock issued by the Company in one or more series under the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
"Preferred Shares
"" means any purchase of shares of Common Stock by the Company or any Affiliate thereof pursuant to (A) any tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) or 14(e) of the Exchange Act or Regulation 14E promulgated thereunder or (B) any other offer available to substantially all holders of Common Stock, in the case of both (A) or (B), whether for cash, shares of Capital Stock of the Company, other securities of the Company, evidences of indebtedness of the Company or any other Person or any other property (including, without limitation, shares of Capital Stock, other securities or evidences of indebtedness of a subsidiary), or any combination thereof, effected while this Warrant is outstanding. The "" of a Pro Rata Repurchase shall mean the date of acceptance of shares for purchase or exchange by the Company under any tender or exchange offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase or the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender or exchange offer.
Pro Rata Repurchases
Effective Date
"" means the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms incorporated into the Letter Agreement, dated as of the date set forth in Item 5 of Schedule A hereto, as amended from time to time, between the Company and the United States Department of the Treasury (the ""), including all annexes and schedules thereto.
Purchase Agreement
Letter Agreement
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Qualified Equity Offering
"" with respect to the Warrantholder, means, to the extent applicable and required to permit the Warrantholder to exercise this Warrant for shares of Common Stock and to own such Common Stock without the Warrantholder being in violation of applicable law, rule or regulation, the receipt of any necessary approvals and authorizations of, filings and registrations with, notifications to, or expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
Regulatory Approvals
"" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Shares
means (A) if the shares of Common Stock are not traded on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market, a business day or (B) if the shares of Common Stock are traded on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market, a business day on which such relevant exchange or
"trading day"
 
quotation system is scheduled to be open for business and on which the shares of Common Stock (i) are not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market for any period or periods aggregating one half hour or longer; and (ii) have traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the shares of Common Stock.
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
U.S. GAAP
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Warrantholder
"" means this Warrant, issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Warrant
2. . This certifies that, for value received, the United States Department of the Treasury or its permitted assigns (the "") is entitled, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to acquire from the Company, in whole or in part, after the receipt of all applicable Regulatory Approvals, if any, up to an aggregate of the number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock set forth in Item 6 of Schedule A hereto, at a purchase price per share of Common Stock equal to the Exercise Price. The number of shares of Common Stock (the "") and the Exercise Price are subject to adjustment as provided herein, and all references to "Common Stock," "Shares" and "Exercise Price" herein shall be deemed to include any such adjustment or series of adjustments.
Number of Shares; Exercise Price
Warrantholder
Shares
3. . Subject to Section 2, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, the right to purchase the Shares represented by this Warrant is exercisable, in whole or in part by the Warrantholder, at any time or from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Warrant by the Company on the date hereof, but in no event later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on the tenth anniversary of the Issue Date (the ""), by (A) the surrender of this Warrant and Notice of Exercise annexed hereto, duly completed and executed on behalf of the Warrantholder, at the principal executive office of the Company located at the address set forth in Item 7 of Schedule A hereto (or such other office or agency of the Company in the United States as it may designate by notice in writing to the Warrantholder at the address of the Warrantholder appearing on the books of the Company), and (B) payment of the Exercise Price for the Shares thereby purchased:
Exercise of Warrant; Term
Expiration Time
(i) by having the Company withhold, from the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be delivered to the Warrantholder upon such exercise, shares of Common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant equal in value to the aggregate Exercise Price as to which this Warrant is so exercised based on the Market Price of the Common Stock on the trading day on which this Warrant is exercised and the Notice of Exercise is delivered to the Company pursuant to this Section 3, or
(ii) with the consent of both the Company and the Warrantholder, by tendering in cash, by certified or cashier's check payable to the order of the Company, or by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by the Company.
 
If the Warrantholder does not exercise this Warrant in its entirety, the Warrantholder will be entitled to receive from the Company within a reasonable time, and in any event not exceeding three business days, a new warrant in substantially identical form for the purchase of that number of Shares equal to the difference between the number of Shares subject to this Warrant and the number of Shares as to which this Warrant is so exercised. Notwithstanding anything in this Warrant to the contrary, the Warrantholder hereby acknowledges and agrees that its exercise of this Warrant for Shares is subject to the condition that the Warrantholder will have first received any applicable Regulatory Approvals.
4. . Certificates for Shares issued upon exercise of this Warrant will be issued in such name or names as the Warrantholder may designate and will be delivered to such named Person or Persons within a reasonable time, not to exceed three business days after the date on which this Warrant has been duly exercised in accordance with the terms of this Warrant. The Company hereby represents and warrants that any Shares issued upon the exercise of this Warrant in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 will be duly and validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free from all taxes, liens and charges (other than liens or charges created by the Warrantholder, income and franchise taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of the Warrant or taxes in respect of any transfer occurring contemporaneously therewith). The Company agrees that the Shares so issued will be deemed to have been issued to the Warrantholder as of the close of business on the date on which this Warrant and payment of the Exercise Price are delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Warrant, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company may then be closed or certificates representing such Shares may not be actually delivered on such date. The Company will at all times reserve and keep available, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, solely for the purpose of providing for the exercise of this Warrant, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at any time. The Company will (A) procure, at its sole expense, the listing of the Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at any time, subject to issuance or notice of issuance, on all principal stock exchanges on which the Common Stock is then listed or traded and (B) maintain such listings of such Shares at all times after issuance. The Company will use reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Shares may be issued without violation of any applicable law or regulation or of any requirement of any securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or traded.
Issuance of Shares; Authorization; Listing
5. . No fractional Shares or scrip representing fractional Shares shall be issued upon any exercise of this Warrant. In lieu of any fractional Share to which the Warrantholder would otherwise be entitled, the Warrantholder shall be entitled to receive a cash payment equal to the Market Price of the Common Stock on the last trading day preceding the date of exercise less the pro-rated Exercise Price for such fractional share.
No Fractional Shares or Scrip
6. . This Warrant does not entitle the Warrantholder to any voting rights or other rights as a stockholder of the Company prior to the date of exercise hereof. The Company will at no time close its transfer books against transfer of this Warrant in any manner which interferes with the timely exercise of this Warrant.
No Rights as Stockholders; Transfer Books
 
7. . Issuance of certificates for Shares to the Warrantholder upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be made without charge to the Warrantholder for any issue or transfer tax or other incidental expense in respect of the issuance of such certificates, all of which taxes and expenses shall be paid by the Company.
Charges, Taxes and Expenses
8. .
Transfer/Assignment
(A) Subject to compliance with clause (B) of this Section 8, this Warrant and all rights hereunder are transferable, in whole or in part, upon the books of the Company by the registered holder hereof in person or by duly authorized attorney, and a new warrant shall be made and delivered by the Company, of the same tenor and date as this Warrant but registered in the name of one or more transferees, upon surrender of this Warrant, duly endorsed, to the office or agency of the Company described in Section 3. All expenses (other than stock transfer taxes) and other charges payable in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the new warrants pursuant to this Section 8 shall be paid by the Company.
(B) The transfer of the Warrant and the Shares issued upon exercise of the Warrant are subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 4.4 of the Purchase Agreement. If and for so long as required by the Purchase Agreement, this Warrant shall contain the legends as set forth in Sections 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) of the Purchase Agreement.
9. . This Warrant is exchangeable, upon the surrender hereof by the Warrantholder to the Company, for a new warrant or warrants of like tenor and representing the right to purchase the same aggregate number of Shares. The Company shall maintain a registry showing the name and address of the Warrantholder as the registered holder of this Warrant. This Warrant may be surrendered for exchange or exercise in accordance with its terms, at the office of the Company, and the Company shall be entitled to rely in all respects, prior to written notice to the contrary, upon such registry.
Exchange and Registry of Warrant
10. . Upon receipt by the Company of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant, and in the case of any such loss, theft or destruction, upon receipt of a bond, indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to the Company, or, in the case of any such mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation of this Warrant, the Company shall make and deliver, in lieu of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Warrant, a new Warrant of like tenor and representing the right to purchase the same aggregate number of Shares as provided for in such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Warrant.
Loss, Theft, Destruction or Mutilation of Warrant
11. If the last or appointed day for the taking of any action or the expiration of any right required or granted herein shall not be a business day, then such action may be taken or such right may be exercised on the next succeeding day that is a business day.
Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays, etc.
12. . The Company covenants that it will use its reasonable best efforts to timely file all reports and other documents required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder (or, if the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the request of any
Rule 144 Information
 
Warrantholder, make publicly available such information as necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act), and it will use reasonable best efforts to take such further action as any Warrantholder may reasonably request, in each case to the extent required from time to time to enable such holder to, if permitted by the terms of this Warrant and the Purchase Agreement, sell this Warrant without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (A) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or (B) any successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. Upon the written request of any Warrantholder, the Company will deliver to such Warrantholder a written statement that it has complied with such requirements.
13. . The Exercise Price and the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows; , that if more than one subsection of this Section 13 is applicable to a single event, the subsection shall be applied that produces the largest adjustment and no single event shall cause an adjustment under more than one subsection of this Section 13 so as to result in duplication:
Adjustments and Other Rights
provided
(A) . If the Company shall (i) declare and pay a dividend or make a distribution on its Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide or reclassify the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares, or (iii) combine or reclassify the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant at the time of the record date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall be proportionately adjusted so that the Warrantholder after such date shall be entitled to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock which such holder would have owned or been entitled to receive in respect of the shares of Common Stock subject to this Warrant after such date had this Warrant been exercised immediately prior to such date. In such event, the Exercise Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall be adjusted to the number obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the record or effective date, as the case may be, for the dividend, distribution, subdivision, combination or reclassification giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new number of Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant determined pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
Stock Splits, Subdivisions, Reclassifications or Combinations
(B) . Until the earlier of (i) the date on which the Original Warrantholder no longer holds this Warrant or any portion thereof and (ii) the third anniversary of the Issue Date, if the Company shall issue shares of Common Stock (or rights or warrants or other securities exercisable or convertible into or exchangeable (collectively, a "") for shares of Common Stock) (collectively, "") (other than in Permitted Transactions (as defined below) or a transaction to which subsection (A) of this Section 13 is applicable) without consideration or at a consideration per share (or having a conversion price per share) that is less than 90% of the Market Price on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement on pricing such shares (or such convertible securities) then, in such event:
Certain Issuances of Common Shares or Convertible Securities
conversion
convertible securities
 
(A) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant immediately prior to the date of the agreement on pricing of such shares (or of such convertible securities) (the "") shall be increased to the number obtained by multiplying the Initial Number by a fraction (A) the numerator of which shall be the sum of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding on such date and (y) the number of additional shares of Common Stock issued (or into which convertible securities may be exercised or convert) and (B) the denominator of which shall be the sum of (I) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate consideration receivable by the Company for the total number of shares of Common Stock so issued (or into which convertible securities may be exercised or convert) would purchase at the Market Price on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement on pricing such shares (or such convertible securities); and
Initial Number
(B) the Exercise Price payable upon exercise of the Warrant shall be adjusted by multiplying such Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the date of the agreement on pricing of such shares (or of such convertible securities) by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of this Warrant prior to such date and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of this Warrant immediately after the adjustment described in clause (A) above.
For purposes of the foregoing, the aggregate consideration receivable by the Company in connection with the issuance of such shares of Common Stock or convertible securities shall be deemed to be equal to the sum of the net offering price (including the Fair Market Value of any non-cash consideration and after deduction of any related expenses payable to third parties) of all such securities plus the minimum aggregate amount, if any, payable upon exercise or conversion of any such convertible securities into shares of Common Stock; and "" shall mean issuances (i) as consideration for or to fund the acquisition of businesses and/or related assets, (ii) in connection with employee benefit plans and compensation related arrangements in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice approved by the Board of Directors, (iii) in connection with a public or broadly marketed offering and sale of Common Stock or convertible securities for cash conducted by the Company or its affiliates pursuant to registration under the Securities Act or Rule 144A thereunder on a basis consistent with capital raising transactions by comparable financial institutions and (iv) in connection with the exercise of preemptive rights on terms existing as of the Issue Date. Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 13(B) shall become effective immediately upon the date of such issuance.
Permitted Transactions
(C) . In case the Company shall fix a record date for the making of a distribution to all holders of shares of its Common Stock of securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets, cash, rights or warrants (excluding Ordinary Cash Dividends, dividends of its Common Stock and other dividends or distributions referred to in Section 13(A)), in each such case, the Exercise Price in effect prior to such record date shall be reduced immediately thereafter to the price determined by multiplying the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the reduction by the quotient of (x) the Market Price of the Common Stock on the last trading day preceding the first date on which the Common Stock trades regular way on the principal
Other Distributions
 
national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading without the right to receive such distribution, minus the amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of the securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets, rights or warrants to be so distributed in respect of one share of Common Stock (such amount and/or Fair Market Value, the "") divided by (y) such Market Price on such date specified in clause (x); such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed. In such event, the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be increased to the number obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment, and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the distribution giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new Exercise Price determined in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence. In the case of adjustment for a cash dividend that is, or is coincident with, a regular quarterly cash dividend, the Per Share Fair Market Value would be reduced by the per share amount of the portion of the cash dividend that would constitute an Ordinary Cash Dividend. In the event that such distribution is not so made, the Exercise Price and the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant then in effect shall be readjusted, effective as of the date when the Board of Directors determines not to distribute such shares, evidences of indebtedness, assets, rights, cash or warrants, as the case may be, to the Exercise Price that would then be in effect and the number of Shares that would then be issuable upon exercise of this Warrant if such record date had not been fixed.
Per Share Fair Market Value
(D) . In case the Company effects a Pro Rata Repurchase of Common Stock, then the Exercise Price shall be reduced to the price determined by multiplying the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of such Pro Rata Repurchase by a fraction of which the numerator shall be (i) the product of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Pro Rata Repurchase and (y) the Market Price of a share of Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the first public announcement by the Company or any of its Affiliates of the intent to effect such Pro Rata Repurchase, minus (ii) the aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, and of which the denominator shall be the product of (i) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Pro Rata Repurchase minus the number of shares of Common Stock so repurchased and (ii) the Market Price per share of Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the first public announcement by the Company or any of its Affiliates of the intent to effect such Pro Rata Repurchase. In such event, the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant shall be increased to the number obtained by dividing (x) the product of (1) the number of Shares issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant before such adjustment, and (2) the Exercise Price in effect immediately prior to the Pro Rata Repurchase giving rise to this adjustment by (y) the new Exercise Price determined in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence. For the avoidance of doubt, no increase to the Exercise Price or decrease in the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant shall be made pursuant to this Section 13(D).
Certain Repurchases of Common Stock
(E) . In case of any Business Combination or reclassification of Common Stock (other than a reclassification of Common Stock referred to in Section 13(A)), the Warrantholder's right to receive Shares upon exercise of this Warrant shall be converted into the right to exercise this Warrant to acquire the number of shares of stock or other securities or property (including cash) which the Common Stock issuable (at the time of such Business Combination or reclassification) upon exercise of this Warrant immediately prior to such
Business Combinations
 
Business Combination or reclassification would have been entitled to receive upon consummation of such Business Combination or reclassification; and in any such case, if necessary, the provisions set forth herein with respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Warrantholder shall be appropriately adjusted so as to be applicable, as nearly as may reasonably be, to the Warrantholder's right to exercise this Warrant in exchange for any shares of stock or other securities or property pursuant to this paragraph. In determining the kind and amount of stock, securities or the property receivable upon exercise of this Warrant following the consummation of such Business Combination, if the holders of Common Stock have the right to elect the kind or amount of consideration receivable upon consummation of such Business Combination, then the consideration that the Warrantholder shall be entitled to receive upon exercise shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the majority of all holders of the shares of common stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election).
(F) . All calculations under this Section 13 shall be made to the nearest one-tenth (1/10th) of a cent or to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100th) of a share, as the case may be. Any provision of this Section 13 to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment in the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall be made if the amount of such adjustment would be less than $0.01 or one-tenth (1/10th) of a share of Common Stock, but any such amount shall be carried forward and an adjustment with respect thereto shall be made at the time of and together with any subsequent adjustment which, together with such amount and any other amount or amounts so carried forward, shall aggregate $0.01 or 1/10th of a share of Common Stock, or more.
Rounding of Calculations; Minimum Adjustments
(G) . In any case in which the provisions of this Section 13 shall require that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after a record date for an event, the Company may defer until the occurrence of such event (i) issuing to the Warrantholder of this Warrant exercised after such record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise by reason of the adjustment required by such event over and above the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise before giving effect to such adjustment and (ii) paying to such Warrantholder any amount of cash in lieu of a fractional share of Common Stock; , , that the Company upon request shall deliver to such Warrantholder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such Warrantholder's right to receive such additional shares, and such cash, upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
Timing of Issuance of Additional Common Stock Upon Certain Adjustments
provided
however
(H) . In the event the Company (or any successor by Business Combination) completes one or more Qualified Equity Offerings on or prior to December 31, 2009 that result in the Company (or any such successor ) receiving aggregate gross proceeds of not less than 100% of the aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Shares (and any preferred stock issued by any such successor under the Troubled Asset Relief Program), the number of shares of Common Stock underlying the portion of this Warrant then held by the Original Warrantholder shall be thereafter reduced by a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the product of (i) 0.5 and (ii) the number of shares underlying the Warrant on the Issue Date (adjusted to take into account all other theretofore made adjustments pursuant to this Section 13).
Completion of Qualified Equity Offering
 
(I) . For so long as the Original Warrantholder holds this Warrant or any portion thereof, if any event occurs as to which the provisions of this Section 13 are not strictly applicable or, if strictly applicable, would not, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company, fairly and adequately protect the purchase rights of the Warrants in accordance with the essential intent and principles of such provisions, then the Board of Directors shall make such adjustments in the application of such provisions, in accordance with such essential intent and principles, as shall be reasonably necessary, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, to protect such purchase rights as aforesaid. The Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall not be adjusted in the event of a change in the par value of the Common Stock or a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Company.
Other Events
(J) . Whenever the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable shall be adjusted as provided in Section 13, the Company shall forthwith file at the principal office of the Company a statement showing in reasonable detail the facts requiring such adjustment and the Exercise Price that shall be in effect and the number of Shares into which this Warrant shall be exercisable after such adjustment, and the Company shall also cause a copy of such statement to be sent by mail, first class postage prepaid, to each Warrantholder at the address appearing in the Company's records.
Statement Regarding Adjustments
(K) . In the event that the Company shall propose to take any action of the type described in this Section 13 (but only if the action of the type described in this Section 13 would result in an adjustment in the Exercise Price or the number of Shares into which this Warrant is exercisable or a change in the type of securities or property to be delivered upon exercise of this Warrant), the Company shall give notice to the Warrantholder, in the manner set forth in Section 13(J), which notice shall specify the record date, if any, with respect to any such action and the approximate date on which such action is to take place. Such notice shall also set forth the facts with respect thereto as shall be reasonably necessary to indicate the effect on the Exercise Price and the number, kind or class of shares or other securities or property which shall be deliverable upon exercise of this Warrant. In the case of any action which would require the fixing of a record date, such notice shall be given at least 10 days prior to the date so fixed, and in case of all other action, such notice shall be given at least 15 days prior to the taking of such proposed action. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of any such action.
Notice of Adjustment Event
(L) . As a condition precedent to the taking of any action which would require an adjustment pursuant to this Section 13, the Company shall take any action which may be necessary, including obtaining regulatory, New York Stock Exchange or stockholder approvals or exemptions, in order that the Company may thereafter validly and legally issue as fully paid and nonassessable all shares of Common Stock that the Warrantholder is entitled to receive upon exercise of this Warrant pursuant to this Section 13.
Proceedings Prior to Any Action Requiring Adjustment
 
(M) . Any adjustments pursuant to this Section 13 shall be made successively whenever an event referred to herein shall occur. If an adjustment in Exercise Price made hereunder would reduce the Exercise Price to an amount below par value of the Common Stock, then such adjustment in Exercise Price made hereunder shall reduce the Exercise Price to the par value of the Common Stock.
Adjustment Rules
14. . At any time following the date on which the shares of Common Stock of the Company are no longer listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange (other than in connection with any Business Combination), the Original Warrantholder may cause the Company to exchange all or a portion of this Warrant for an economic interest (to be determined by the Original Warrantholder after consultation with the Company) of the Company classified as permanent equity under U.S. GAAP having a value equal to the Fair Market Value of the portion of the Warrant so exchanged. The Original Warrantholder shall calculate any Fair Market Value required to be calculated pursuant to this Section 14, which shall not be subject to the Appraisal Procedure.
Exchange
15. . The Company will not, by amendment of its Charter or through any reorganization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue or sale of securities or any other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of any of the terms to be observed or performed hereunder by the Company, but will at all times in good faith assist in the carrying out of all the provisions of this Warrant and in taking of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect the rights of the Warrantholder.
No Impairment
16. .
Governing Law
This Warrant will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State. Each of the Company and the Warrantholder agrees (a) to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for any civil action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby, and (b) that notice may be served upon the Company at the address in Section 20 below and upon the Warrantholder at the address for the Warrantholder set forth in the registry maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 9 hereof. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each of the Company and the Warrantholder hereby unconditionally waives trial by jury in any civil legal action or proceeding relating to the Warrant or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
17. . This Warrant shall be binding upon any successors or assigns of the Company.
Binding Effect
18. . This Warrant may be amended and the observance of any term of this Warrant may be waived only with the written consent of the Company and the Warrantholder.
Amendments
19 . . The Company agrees that it will not take any action which would entitle the Warrantholder to an adjustment of the Exercise Price if the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable after such action upon exercise of this Warrant, together with
Prohibited Actions
 
all shares of Common Stock then outstanding and all shares of Common Stock then issuable upon the exercise of all outstanding options, warrants, conversion and other rights, would exceed the total number of shares of Common Stock then authorized by its Charter.
20. . Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to the other will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given (a) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, or by facsimile, upon confirmation of receipt, or (b) on the second business day following the date of dispatch if delivered by a recognized next day courier service. All notices hereunder shall be delivered as set forth in Item 8 of Schedule A hereto, or pursuant to such other instructions as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice.
Notices
21. . This Warrant, the forms attached hereto and Schedule A hereto (the terms of which are incorporated by reference herein), and the Letter Agreement (including all documents incorporated therein), contain the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior and contemporaneous arrangements or undertakings with respect thereto.
Entire Agreement
 
 
 
The undersigned, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the attached Warrant, hereby agrees to subscribe for and purchase the number of shares of the Common Stock set forth below covered by such Warrant. The undersigned, in accordance with Section 3 of the Warrant, hereby agrees to pay the aggregate Exercise Price for such shares of Common Stock in the manner set forth below. A new warrant evidencing the remaining shares of Common Stock covered by such Warrant, but not yet subscribed for and purchased, if any, should be issued in the name set forth below.
Number of Shares of Common Stock
                    
Method of Payment of Exercise Price (note if cashless exercise pursuant to Section 3(i) of the Warrant or cash exercise pursuant to Section 3(ii) of the Warrant, with consent of the Company and the Warrantholder)
                    
Aggregate Exercise Price:
                    
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be duly executed by a duly authorized officer.
Dated: January 9, 2009
 
SCHEDULE A
Item 1
Name: Bank of America Corporation
Corporate or other organizational form: Corporation
Jurisdiction of organization: Delaware
Item 2
Exercise Price: $30.79
Item 3
Issue Date: October 28, 2008
Item 4
Amount of last dividend declared prior to the Issue Date: $0.32
Item 5
Date of Letter Agreement between the Company and the United States Department of the Treasury: October 26, 2008
Item 6
Number of shares of Common Stock: 121,792,790
Item 7
Company's address:
Bank of America Corporate Center
100 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, NC 28255
Item 8
Notice information:
If to the Company:
Bank of America Corporation
Bank of America Corporate Center
100 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, NC 28255
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (704) 370-3515
with a copy to:
Bank of America Corporation
Bank of America Corporate Center
100 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, NC 28255
Attention: Treasurer
NC1-007-56-71
If to the Warrantholder:
United States Department of the Treasury
1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 2312
Washington, D.C. 20220
Attention: Assistant General Counsel (Banking and Finance)
Facsimile: (202) 622-1974
 

Exhibit 10.1
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Letter Agreement (the "") incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms dated as of October 26, 2008 between the United States Department of the Treasury ("") and Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Letter Agreement.
Letter Agreement
Investor
Company
The Investor and the Company intend to consummate the Additional Purchase on January 9, 2009 and wish to set forth certain agreements, understandings and amendments to the Securities Purchase Agreement in connection therewith. In light of the foregoing, the Investor and the Company hereby agree that:
(i) The term "" in the Securities Purchase Agreement shall mean the 600,000 shares of the Company's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N set forth on Schedule A to the Letter Agreement and issued to the Investor on October 28, 2008 and the 400,000 shares of the Company's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q to be issued pursuant to the Additional Purchase.
Preferred Shares
(ii) The warrant to purchase 73,075,674 shares of the Company's Common Stock issued to the Investor on October 28, 2008 shall be cancelled, a new warrant (the "") to purchase 121,792,790 shares of the Company's Common Stock with an exercise price of $30.79 and with the amendments set forth in clauses (a) through (d) below shall be issued to the Investor upon closing of the Additional Purchase, and such New Warrant shall be deemed to be the "" for all purposes under the Securities Purchase Agreement.
New Warrant
Warrant
Amendments to be included in the New Warrant:
(a) The definition of "" shall be deleted.
CPP
(b) The definition of "" shall be amended to read as follows:
Preferred Shares
"" means any preferred stock issued by the Company in one or more series under the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
Preferred Shares
(c) The third parenthetical in Section 13(H) shall be amended to read as follows:
"(and any preferred stock issued by any such successor under the Troubled Asset Relief Program)".
(d) The word "civil" shall be inserted before the word "action" in clause (a) of Section 16 and before the phrase "legal action" in the last sentence of Section 16.
(iii) The term "" in the Securities Purchase Agreement shall mean the 121,792,790 shares of Common Stock for which the New Warrant is exercisable.
Initial Warrant Shares
(iv) The term "" in the Securities Purchase Agreement shall mean the $15,000,000,000 set forth on Schedule A to the Letter Agreement and paid by the Investor to the Company on October 28, 2008 and the $10,000,000,000 to be paid in connection with the consummation of the Additional Purchase.
Purchase Price
(v) For purposes of the Additional Purchase, the definition of "" in Section 2.1(a) of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall mean January 9, 2009.
Signing Date
(vi) For purposes of the Additional Purchase, the definition of "" in Section 2.1(b) of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
Previously Disclosed
" means information set forth or incorporated in the Company's or Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recently completed fiscal year of such entity, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") prior to the Signing Date (the "Last Fiscal Year") or in its other reports and forms filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a), 14(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") on or after the last day of the Last Fiscal Year and prior to the Closing Date."
Previously Disclosed'
(vii) The definition of "" in Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
Qualified Equity Offering
"' means the sale and issuance for cash by the Company to persons other than the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries after the Closing Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Company at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Company's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances (i) made by the Company (or any successor by Business Combination) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or (ii) made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008)."
Qualified Equity Offering
(viii) The Additional Purchase shall not be deemed a "" (a) under the Securities Purchase Agreement or any of the documents or instruments related thereto, including the Certificate of Designations for the Company's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N or the Warrant or (b) in respect of any other securities issued by the Company under the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
Qualified Equity Offering
(ix) Clause (a) of Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be revised to read, in its entirety, as follows:
"(a) the date on which the Company (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Purchase Price (and the purchase price paid to any such successor for securities of such successor purchased under the Troubled Asset Relief Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor) and".
The Investor and the Company agree that the respective obligations of each of the Investor and the Company to consummate the Additional Purchase are subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by the Investor and the Company, as applicable) prior to the Closing of the Additional
Purchase of the conditions that (i) any approvals or authorizations of all Governmental Entities required for the consummation of the Additional Purchase shall have been obtained or made in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to each party and shall be in full force and effect and all waiting periods required by United States and other applicable law, if any, shall have expired and (ii) no provision of any applicable United States or other law and no judgment, injunction, order or decree of any Governmental Entity shall prohibit the Additional Purchase as contemplated by the Letter Agreement, incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement (as modified by this letter agreement).
The Investor and the Company further agree that the obligation of the Investor to consummate the Additional Purchase is also subject to the fulfillment (or waiver by the Investor) at or prior to the Closing of the Additional Purchase of each of the conditions set forth in Section 1.2(d) of the Securities Purchase Agreement (provided that for purposes of determining fulfillment or waiver thereof in connection with the consummation of the Additional Purchase, references in such Section 1.2(d) to the "Closing" and the "Closing Date" shall be deemed references to the closing of the Additional Purchase and the Closing Date of the Additional Purchase, respectively; references in such Section 1.2(d) to the "Purchase" shall be deemed references to the Additional Purchase; references in such Section 1.2(d) to the "Preferred Shares" shall be deemed references to the Preferred Shares to be issued pursuant to the Additional Purchase; and references in such Section 1.2(d) to the "Warrant" shall be deemed references to the New Warrant to be issued pursuant to the Additional Purchase) and to the Investor having received a certificate in the form attached hereto as Appendix I signed on behalf of the Company by a senior executive officer.
Additionally, any Schedule attached to the Securities Purchase Agreement may be amended and supplemented for the Closing of the Additional Purchase, with a Schedule of the corresponding letter attached to this letter agreement. The parties hereto further incorporate into the Securities Purchase Agreement, as amended and supplemented for the Closing of the Additional Purchase, Schedules B, C, D, E and F of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. attached to this letter agreement (the ""). The Merrill Schedules shall be deemed to update and supplement the Schedules attached to this letter agreement.
Merrill Schedules
Subject to the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding paragraphs, at the closing of the Additional Purchase, the Company will deliver the Preferred Shares to be issued pursuant to the Additional Purchase and the New Warrant, in each case as evidenced by one or more certificates dated the closing date of the Additional Purchase and bearing appropriate legends as provided in the Securities Purchase Agreement, in exchange for payment in full of $10,000,000,000 by wire transfer of immediately available United States funds to a bank account designated by the Company on Appendix II hereto.
The Company hereby agrees that any transferee of the Preferred Shares or the Warrant shall be an express third party beneficiary of this letter agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Investor and the Company agree that the foregoing amendments to the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be deemed incorporated into the Letter Agreement.
This letter agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same agreement. Executed signature pages to this letter agreement may be delivered by facsimile and such facsimiles will be deemed as sufficient as if actual signature pages had been delivered.
In witness whereof, this letter agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized representatives of the parties hereto as of the date written below.
 
Date: January 9, 2009
Appendix I
This Officer's Certificate (this "") is delivered from (the "") to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "") in connection with the Company's delivery of the following documents (collectively, the "") related to the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program to the Investor: (i) the letter agreement dated the date hereof between the Company and the Investor; (ii) the Certificate of Designations; (iii) the Warrant; and (iv) this Officer's Certificate.
Certificate
                    
Company
Investor
Transaction Documents
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Transaction Documents.
The undersigned duly authorized senior executive officer of the Company hereby certifies to the Investor, on behalf of the Company, and subject to the requirements and penalties set forth in Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001, that:
all statements, representations, and warranties contained in the Transaction Documents are true and complete to the best of my knowledge. The Company acknowledges that such statements, representations, and warranties will be materially relied upon by the Investor to enter into the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate on the date first written above.
 
 
Appendix II
Wire Information for Closing of Additional Purchase:


