FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20090821163026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
On August 21, 2009, Bank of America Corporation (the "Corporation") appointed Robert W. Scully to its board of directors (the "Board"), effective August 21, 2009. Mr. Scully is expected to serve on the Asset Quality and Compensation and Benefits Committees of the Board. Mr. Scully will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Corporation's non-employee director compensation practices described in the Corporation's Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2009. The initial cash and stock award to be received by Mr. Scully will be pro rated from the date of appointment to the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders.
A copy of the news release announcing the event described above is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this report by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 21, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
August 21, 2009
Investors May Contact:
Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, 1.704.386.5667
Lee McEntire, Bank of America, 1.704.388.6780
Grace Yoon, Bank of America, 1.212.449.7323
Reporters May Contact:
Scott Silvestri, Bank of America, 1.980.388.9921
scott.silvestri@bankofamerica.com
CHARLOTTE  The Bank of America Corporation Board of Directors today elected Robert W. Scully as a new director, effective immediately.
Scully, 59, served as a member of the office of the chairman of Morgan Stanley focusing on the firm's key clients until January 2009, when he retired after nearly 35 years in the financial services industry.
While co-president at Morgan Stanley, Scully was responsible for asset management, the Discover card business and merchant banking activities. Prior to that, he served as chairman of global capital markets and was vice chairman of investment banking where he was responsible for talent development, senior client relationships and strategic initiatives. Before joining Morgan Stanley in 1996, Scully served as a managing director at Lehman Brothers and at Salomon Brothers.
Scully is chairman of the New York City region of Teach for America, Inc. and is also a member of the board of directors of the Global Fund for Children. Scully previously served as a member of the board of directors of GMAC Financial Services and MSCI Inc.
He received a bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1972 and an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1977.
Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 53 million
consumer and small business relationships with more than 6,100 retail banking offices, nearly 18,500 ATMs and award-winning online banking with 29 million active users. Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to more than 4 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients in more than 150 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.


