FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20100115170633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
On January 12, 2010, Bank of America Corporation (the "Corporation") announced, among other senior management changes, that Joe. L. Price, 48, will resign from his current position as the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation and will become head of Consumer, Small Business and Card Banking, effective February 1, 2010.
Also on January 12, 2010, the Corporation announced that Neil A. Cotty, 55, will serve as the interim Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, effective February 1, 2010, while the Corporation engages in an external search for a new chief financial officer. Mr. Cotty will continue in his current role as chief accounting officer of the Corporation. Mr. Cotty joined Bank of America in March 1996 and has served in various capacities since that time. Mr. Cotty previously served as the Corporation's chief accounting officer from April 2004 to December 2008 and as the chief financial officer of the Corporation's Global Banking and Global Wealth and Investment Management businesses from January 2009 to July 2009. Since July 2009, Mr. Cotty has served as the Corporation's chief accounting officer.
 
On January 12, 2010, the Corporation announced its senior management team. A copy of the news release announcing such senior management team is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 15, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
January 12, 2010
Investors May Contact:
Kevin Stitt, Bank of America, 1.704.386.5667
Lee McEntire, Bank of America, 1.704.388.6780
Reporters May Contact:
Lawrence Di Rita, Bank of America, 1.704.941.1460
lawrence.di_rita@bankofamerica.com
CHARLOTTE  Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer and president of Bank of America Corporation, today announced the company's most senior management team.
"The leadership, judgment, diverse backgrounds, and experience of this team are just what we need to execute on the best business model in our industry," Moynihan said. "Together, we will focus on serving our customers and clients, returning our company to profitability for our shareholders, and ensuring our 300,000 outstanding fellow associates have all they need to help our company succeed."
"Bank of America is well-positioned to assist individuals, families, and businesses of all sizes to work through the continuing economic challenges," noted Moynihan. "This management team will not waver in our commitment to clarity, fairness, to putting the customer and client at the center of everything we do, and to working with public officials and policymakers to achieve our mutual goal of economic prosperity."
The Bank of America management team, whose members will report directly to Moynihan, is:
, chief administrative officer.
Steele Alphin
, who will become Global Technology and Operations executive. She is currently president of Global Corporate Banking.
Cathy Bessant
, president of Global Commercial Banking.
David Darnell
, president of Home Loans and Insurance.
Barbara Desoer
, global strategy and marketing officer.
Anne Finucane
, president of Global Wealth and Investment Management.
Sallie Krawcheck
More
, president of Global Banking and Markets.
Tom Montag
, general counsel.
Ed O'Keefe
, who will become president of Consumer, Small Business and Card Banking, which includes the company's deposit, small business and card businesses. Price will continue to serve as chief financial officer until February 1, while the bank engages in an external search for a new chief financial officer. After February 1 and until a permanent replacement is found, Neil Cotty will serve as interim CFO.
Joe Price
will be chief risk officer. Thompson is currently head of Global Capital Markets. Greg Curl, current chief risk officer, will focus on key strategic partnerships critical to Bank of America's global capabilities.
Bruce Thompson
"Greg is a principal architect of one of the world's premier financial services franchises," continued Moynihan. "As chief risk officer, he has positioned Bank of America for strength, stability, and soundness as we continue to work through the economic challenges ahead. I have benefited from his counsel and judgment."
Bank of America
Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving approximately 53 million consumer and small business relationships with 6,000 retail banking offices, more than 18,000 ATMs and award-winning online banking with more than 29 million active users. Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank of America offers industry-leading support to more than 4 million small business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and services. The company serves clients in more than 150 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
 


