FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20110901161556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained in Item 5.03 of this Report is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
 
On August 31, 2011, Bank of America Corporation (the "Registrant") filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Certificate of Designations (the "Certificate of Designations") for the purposes of amending its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to establish the terms of the Registrant's 6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T (the "Preferred Stock"), having a liquidation value of $100,000 per share. The terms of the Preferred Stock are more fully described in Item 8.01 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on August 25, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein, and in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
On September 1, 2011, the Registrant closed its previously announced sale to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the "Closing") of (1) 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock, and (2) a warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 700,000,000 shares of the Registrant's common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 billion in cash. The terms of the Warrant are more fully described in Item 8.01 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 25, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein, and in the form of Warrant filed as Annex B of Exhibit 1.1 to such Current Report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 1, 2011
 

Exhibit 3.1
, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
Corporation
The board of directors of the Corporation (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and applicable law, at a meeting duly called and held on August 25, 2011, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "".
Board of Directors
6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T
, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
Section 1. . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T" (""). Each share of Series T shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series T.
Designation
Series T
Section 2. . The authorized number of shares of Series T shall be 50,000. Shares of Series T that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock ( that any such cancelled shares of Series T may be reissued only as shares of any now or hereafter designated series other than Series T).
Number of Shares
provided
Section 3. . As used herein with respect to Series T:
Definitions
(a) "" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
(b) "" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
(c) "" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series T, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
(d) "" shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
Certification of Incorporation
(e) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(f) "" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks junior to Series T either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
(g) "" means September 1, 2011.
Original Issue Date
(h) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks equally with Series T both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (vi) 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (xii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N, (xiii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q, (xiv) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series R, (xv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (xvi) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (xvii) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (xviii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (xix) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (xx) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6, (xxi) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7 and (xxii) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8.
Parity Stock
(i) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series T.
Preferred Stock
(j) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
(k) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series T) that rank equally with Series T either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
Voting Preferred Stock
 
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Section 4. .
Dividends
(a) . Holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series T, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 6% (as such may be adjusted pursuant to this Section 4(a), the "") on (i) the amount of $100,000 per share of Series T and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends on such share of Series T, if any (giving effect to (A) any dividends paid through the Dividend Payment Date (as defined below) that begins such Dividend Period (other than the initial Dividend Period) and (B) any dividends (including dividends thereon at a per annum rate equal to the Dividend Rate to the date of payment) paid during such Dividend Period); that if, on any Dividend Payment Date, the holder of record (for such Dividend Payment Date) of a share of Series T shall not have received in cash the full amount of any dividend required to be paid on such share on such Dividend Payment Date pursuant to this Section 4(a), then the Dividend Rate shall automatically be at a per annum rate of 8% with respect to the Dividend Period for which the full amount of any dividend required to be paid on such share on such Dividend Payment Date pursuant to this Section 4(a) was not made and for all Dividend Periods thereafter. Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each Dividend Payment Date (, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) on each October 10, January 10, April 10 and July 10 (each, a ""), commencing on October 10, 2011; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series T on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends payable on the Series T in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on the Series T on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Rate
Dividend Rate
provided
i.e.
Dividend Payment Date
provided
Dividends that are payable on Series T on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series T as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date (as originally scheduled) or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
Each dividend period (a "") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the
Dividend Period
 
Original Issue Date of the Series T) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
Holders of Series T shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series T as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
(b) . So long as any share of Series T remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock or of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock (with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount) or Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Series T have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Series T on the applicable record date). The foregoing provision shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the cashless exercises and similar actions under any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice prior to the Original Issuance Date; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) in connection with the issuance of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, ordinary sale and repurchase transactions to facilitate the distribution of such Junior Stock or Parity Stock; and (iv) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of, and at the ultimate cost of, any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians.
Priority of Dividends
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon the Series T and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series T and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the Series T (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of
 
Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series T shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
Section 5. .
Liquidation Rights
(a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series T, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series T as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $100,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment. Furthermore, without limiting in any way the obligation of the Corporation to make the payments specified in the immediately preceding sentence, in connection with the payment of the amounts specified in clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that, immediately prior to any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Corporation shall declare and pay any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) outstanding as of such time.
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
(b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series T and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series T as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series T and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series T and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock, including the Series T, on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, as applicable), that the Liquidation Preference for any share of Series T shall be determined in accordance with Section 5(a) above.
Partial Payment
pro rata
Liquidation Preference
provided
(c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series T, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all
Residual Distributions
 
remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
(d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series T receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
Section 6. .
Redemption
(a) . The Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) $105,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the redemption date. Without limiting in any way the obligation of the Corporation to make the payments specified in the immediately preceding sentence, in connection with the payment of the amounts specified in clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that, immediately prior to any such redemption, the Corporation shall declare and pay any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) outstanding as of such time. The minimum number of shares of Series T redeemable at any time is the lesser of (x) 10,000 shares of Series T and (y) the number of shares of Series T outstanding. The redemption price for any shares of Series T shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
Optional Redemption
(b) . The Series T will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series T will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series T.
No Sinking Fund
(c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series T shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series T designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series T. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of
Notice of Redemption
 
redemption may be given to the holders of Series T at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series T to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon receipt of any notice of redemption hereunder, the holder of any share of Series T outstanding at such time shall have five (5) Business Days to deliver to the Corporation written notice of its election to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder's rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation originally issued by the Corporation in connection with the issuance of the Series T by means of a surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof and of any such warrant, and the Corporation's right to redeem the shares of Series T specified in such notice of redemption shall be (x) tolled during such five (5) Business Day period and (y) if the holder so elects to exercise such warrant and surrender such shares of Series T, in whole or in part, automatically terminated only with respect to such shares of Series T to be so surrendered.
(d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series T shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
(e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $50 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
Section 7. . Holders of Series T shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities, except in connection with the surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T to satisfy any portion of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T by the Corporation.
Conversion
 
Section 8. .
Voting Rights
(a) . The holders of Series T shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
(b) . So long as any shares of Series T are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series T
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(b), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T.
provided
however
If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series T and one or more
 
but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series T and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series T but would not similarly adversely affect all other series of Voting Parity Stock, then only the Series T and each other series of Voting Parity Stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
(c) . In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, so long as at least 10,000 shares of Series T are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 50.1% of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, voting in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Series T Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
(i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or the issuance of any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, in each case, ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock
(ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to affect or change the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T so as not to be substantially similar to those in effect immediately prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal; or
Amendment of Series T
(iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof as are substantially similar to the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
provided
however
 
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T.
(d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series T shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series T (or, in the case of Section 8(c), more than 40,000 shares of Series T) shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
(e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series T (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series T is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series T are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent ( that the specified liquidation amount for any share of Series T shall be the Liquidation Preference for such share) as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
provided
Section 9. . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series T may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series T as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Record Holders
Section 10. . All notices or communications in respect of Series T shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Series T in any manner permitted by such facility.
Notices
Section 11. . No share of Series T shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
No Preemptive Rights
Section 12. . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The
Replacement Certificates
 
Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Section 13. . In connection with the exercise of any rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T, a holder of shares of Series T shall have the right to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder's rights under any such warrant by means of a surrender to the Corporation of the applicable amount shares of the Series T.
Surrender Rights
Section 14. . The shares of Series T shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Other Rights
 
I W W, BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION has caused this certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 31
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
st
day of August, 2011.
 
 


