FILE:BAC/BAC-8K-20120411163131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
April 11, 2012
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 11, 2012
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
100 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28255
(Address of principal executive offices)
(704) 386-5681
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
From time to time, including in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the Annual Report), Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Corporation) have indicated that the Corporation may reclassify its business segment results based on, among other things, changes in its organizational alignment. In the Annual Report, the Corporation reported its results of operations through six business segments:
Deposits, Card Services, Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES), Global Commercial Banking, Global Banking & Markets (GBAM)
and
Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM)
, with the remaining operations recorded in
All Other
. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Corporation changed its basis of presentation from six segments to five segments:
Consumer & Business Banking (CBB), CRES, Global Banking, Global Markets
and
GWIM
, with the remaining operations recorded in
All Other
. The former
Deposits
and
Card Services
segments, as well as the Business Banking business, which was included in the former
Global Commercial Banking
segment, are now reflected in
CBB
. The former
Global Commercial Banking
segment was combined with the Global Corporate and Investment Banking business, which was included in the former
Global Banking & Markets (GBAM)
segment, to form
Global Banking
. The remaining global markets business of
GBAM
is now reported as a separate
Global Markets
segment. In addition, certain management accounting methodologies and related allocations were refined.
The information contained in this Form 8-K is being furnished to assist investors in understanding how the the Corporation's business segment results would have been presented in previously filed reports had such results been reported to reflect the realignment discussed above. This business segment realignment did not affect the Consolidated Statement of Income or
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revised Supplemental Information to reflect the segment realignment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Revised Suppl
emental Information is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall the Revised Supplemental Information be deemed incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished herewith.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:
April 11, 2012
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Revised Supplemental Information
to Reflect Segment Realignment
Full Years 2011 and 2010
Quarterly Information for 2011
This segment information is preliminary and based on company data available at the time of this filing. Bank of America does not undertake an obligation to, and disclaims any duty to, update any of the information provided. Any forward-looking statements in this information are subject to the forward-looking language contained in Bank of Americas reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are available at the SECs website (www.sec.gov) or at Bank of Americas website (www.bankofamerica.com). Bank of Americas future financial performance is subject to risks and uncertainties as described in its SEC filings.
n/m = not meaningful
For footnotes see page 4.
n/m = not meaningful
(1)
Return on average economic capital is calculated as net income adjusted for cost of funds and earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles, divided by average economic capital. Economic capital represents allocated equity less goodwill and a percentage of intangible assets. Economic capital and return on average economic capital are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the segments. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. (See
Exhibit A: Non-GAAP Reconciliations - Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures
on pages
25-27
.)
(2)
Total earning assets and total assets include asset allocations to match liabilities (i.e., deposits).
n/m = not meaningful
n/m = not meaningful
n/a = not applicable
n/m = not meaningful
The Corporation evaluates its business based on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, a non-GAAP financial measure. The Corporation believes managing the business with net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis provides a more accurate picture of the interest margin for comparative purposes. Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income. To derive the fully taxable-equivalent basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. This measure ensures comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources.
In addition, the Corporation evaluates its business segment results based on return on average economic capital, a non-GAAP financial measure. Return on average economic capital for the segments is calculated as net income adjusted for cost of funds and earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles, divided by average economic capital. Economic capital represents average allocated equity less goodwill and a percentage of intangible assets. It also believes the use of this non-GAAP financial measure provides additional clarity in assessing the segments.
See the tables below and on pages 26-27 for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with financial measures defined by GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the three months ended December 31, 2011, September 30, 2011, June 30, 2011 and March 31, 2011. The Corporation believes the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate supplemental financial data differently.
For footnote see page 27.


