FILE:XYL/XYL-8K-20121107080819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Company executives will present an overview of the Company at the Robert W. Baird's 42nd Annual Industrial Conference on November 7, 2012. The presentation slides will be posted on the Company's website and are attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Caution Concerning Forward Looking Statements
This document contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Generally, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the separation of Xylem Inc. (the "Company") from ITT Corporation, the terms and the effect of the separation, the nature and impact of the separation, capitalization of the Company, future strategic plans and other statements that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future  including statements relating to orders, sales, operating margins and earnings per share growth, and statements expressing general views about future operating results  are forward-looking statements.
Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because they involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 



