FILE:XYL/XYL-8K-20120503080727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is the news release issued by Xylem Inc. on May 3, 2012, announcing the financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference are earnings slides posted on Xylem Inc.'s website on May 3, 2012, summarizing Xylem Inc.'s financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. This information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xylem
1133 Westchester Ave., White Plains, NY 10604
Tel +1.914.323.5700 Fax +1.914.696.2960
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
May 3, 2012  Xylem Inc. (NYSE: XYL), a leading global water technology company focused on solving the world's most challenging water issues, today reported first quarter revenue of $925 million, up 6 percent from the first quarter 2011 on a constant currency basis and up 4 percent on a reported basis. First quarter net income was $63 million or $0.34 per share. Adjusting for one-time separation costs resulting from the Xylem spinoff from ITT Corporation on October 31, 2011, net income was $67 million or $0.36 per share, up 9 percent or 3 cents per share over the first quarter 2011 on a normalized basis.*
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.,
"Our growth in revenue and operating earnings in the first quarter is a testament to the strength of our comprehensive water portfolio, particularly the investments we've made in expanding our analytics and dewatering platforms," said Gretchen McClain, president and chief executive officer of Xylem. "We believe we are particularly well-positioned to capture growth opportunities from the diverse end markets we serve."
"We continue to see strong growth in our businesses serving the industrial markets, our largest end market," McClain continued. "We are gaining market share in commercial building services, bolstered by some of our new products including the energy-saving eSV multistage booster pump. Total orders for the quarter exceeded $1 billion for the first time. And our latest acquisition, YSI, is already contributing to earnings and its integration into the rest of the business is ahead of plan. Solid free cash flow performance allows us to continue to make strategic investments and drive future growth."
Xylem achieved free cash flow of $41 million and an adjusted operating margin of 11.2 percent, excluding non-recurring separation costs. Operating margin was also impacted by incremental stand-alone costs of $10 million, which reduced margin by 110 basis points.
 
First Quarter Segment Results
Water Infrastructure
Xylem's Water Infrastructure businesses provide equipment and services focused on the transport, treatment and testing of water and wastewater in the public utility and industrial markets.
 
 
 
Applied Water
Xylem's Applied Water businesses provide equipment and services in the residential and commercial building services, general industrial and agricultural markets.
 
 
Affirming previous full-year 2012 guidance
Xylem is affirming previous guidance for full-year 2012 revenue in the range of $3.9 billion  $4.0 billion, representing year-over-year organic growth of 4 to 6 percent. Operating margins are anticipated to be in the range of 12.7 to 13.3 percent, excluding spinoff-related costs, but including incremental stand-alone costs of $25 to $30 million as Xylem completes its first full year as an independent company. These stand-alone costs will offset operating margin by 60 to 80 basis points. Full-year 2012 adjusted net income is forecast to be $334 million to $362 million, for adjusted earnings per share of $1.80 to $1.95 for the full year 2012, which reflects expected growth of 8 to 17 percent over normalized 2011. Reported net income, which includes one-time separation costs, is anticipated to range from $319 million to $350 million, or $1.72 to $1.89 per share.
 
More detail available
Supplemental information on Xylem's first quarter earnings, including reconciliations for certain non-GAAP items, is posted at investors.xyleminc.com.
About Xylem
Xylem (XYL) is a leading global water technology provider, enabling customers to transport, treat, test and efficiently use water in public utility, residential and commercial building services, industrial and agricultural settings. The company does business in more than 150 countries through a number of market-leading product brands, and its people bring broad applications expertise with a strong focus on finding local solutions to the world's most challenging water and wastewater problems. Launched in 2011 from the spinoff of the water-related businesses of ITT Corporation, Xylem is headquartered in White Plains, N.Y., with 2011 annual revenues of $3.8 billion and 12,500 employees worldwide.
The name Xylem is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all  that which occurs in nature. For more information, please visit us at .
www.xyleminc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Generally, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the separation of Xylem Inc. (the "Company") from ITT Corporation, the terms and the effect of the separation, the nature and impact of the separation, capitalization of the Company, future strategic plans and other statements that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future  including statements relating to orders, sales, operating margins and earnings per share growth, and statements expressing general views about future operating results  are forward-looking statements.
Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because they involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited)
(in millions)
 
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(in millions)
 
 
Management views key performance indicators including revenue, gross margins, segment operating income and margins, orders growth, free cash flow, working capital, and backlog, among others. In addition, we consider certain measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity and management of assets. This information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment among competing strategic alternatives and initiatives. These metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for revenues, operating income, net income, earnings per share (basic and diluted) or net cash from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. We consider the following non-GAAP measures, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, to be key performance indicators:
defined as revenue and orders, respectively, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, intercompany transactions, and contributions from acquisitions and divestitures. Divestitures include sales of portions of our business that did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation or insignificant portions of our business that we did not classify as a discontinued operation. The period-over-period change resulting from foreign currency fluctuations assumes no change in exchange rates from the prior period.
"Organic revenue" and "Organic orders"
defined as financial results adjusted for currency by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency.
"Constant currency"
defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense, and share-based compensation. reflects the adjustment to EBITDA to exclude for one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation.
"EBITDA"
"Adjusted EBITDA"
defined as operating income and earnings per share, adjusted to exclude one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation and tax-related special items.
"Operating Income *" and "Adjusted EPS"
defined as earnings per share, adjusted to exclude one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation and tax-related special items, as well as an adjustment to reflect the incremental current period amount of interest expense and stand-alone costs in the prior comparable period.
"Normalized EPS"
defined as net cash from operating activities, as reported in the Statement of Cash Flow, less capital expenditures as well as adjustments for other significant items that impact current results which management believes are not related to our ongoing operations and performance. Our definition of free cash flows does not consider non-discretionary cash payments, such as debt.
"Free Cash Flow"
 
 
Note: Due to rounding and intersegment eliminations the sum of segment amounts may not agree to Xylem totals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 



