FILE:XYL/XYL-8K-20120802080159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is the news release issued by Xylem Inc. on August 2, 2012, announcing the financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference are earnings slides posted on Xylem Inc.'s website on August 2, 2012, summarizing Xylem Inc.'s financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. This information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xylem
1133 Westchester Ave., White Plains, NY 10604
Tel +1.914.323.5700 Fax +1.914.696.2960
 
Second quarter adjusted net income is $92 million or $0.49 per share, up 4 percent on a normalized* basis; $89 million or $0.48 per share as reported, up 23 percent or $0.09 per share from Q2 2011
Second quarter revenue up 4 percent in constant currencies to $966 million; down 1 percent as reported, due to foreign currency translation impact
Gross and operating margins climb 60 and 100 basis points, respectively, on a normalized basis, continuing a three-year upward trend; sales program and cost reduction initiatives driving profitability
Company continues to execute growth strategy with MJK Automation acquisition; emerging markets post revenue growth of 22 percent in constant currencies
August 2, 2012  Xylem Inc. (NYSE: XYL), a leading global water technology company focused on solving the world's most challenging water issues, today reported second quarter revenue of $966 million, up 4 percent on a constant currency basis, down 1 percent as reported from the second quarter 2011. Second quarter net income was $89 million or $0.48 per share, up $0.09 per share or 23 percent from the same period last year. Adjusting for one-time separation costs resulting from the Xylem spinoff from ITT Corporation on October 31, 2011, and special tax items, net income was $92 million or $0.49 per share, up 4 percent or $0.02 per share over the second quarter 2011 on a normalized basis.* Recognizing soft economic conditions and the anticipated negative currency impact from the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar, the company announced that it is revising its full-year revenue and earnings outlook downward.
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.,
"Our business operations continue to improve, even with lower than anticipated revenue, showing strong gross and operating margin improvement in this tough economy, extending a three-year positive trend: we're seeing the benefit of disciplined cost control measures we've put in place," said Gretchen McClain, president and chief executive officer of Xylem. "Our leadership team is committed to maximizing the benefit of our Customer Excellence sales initiatives to grow the top line, and we are driving operational excellence to grow the bottom line, as well as controlling costs."
 
"We continue to enhance our portfolio, having just closed the acquisition of MJK Automation, a leading manufacturer of flow and level sensors, and measurement and control technology for water and wastewater applications, a business that complements our offerings in the attractive analytical instrumentation space," McClain said. "Further, we've seen our business grow by 22 percent in constant currencies in the emerging markets, or 17 percent on an organic basis, enhancing our footprint, most recently with new sales and service centers in Panama and Vietnam."
Full-year revenues are now expected to be approximately $3.8 billion, and adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $321 to $338 million, or $1.72 to $1.82 per share, down from the earlier projection of adjusted net income of $1.80 to $1.95 per share. Full-year GAAP net income is now anticipated to be in the range of $292 to $317 million, or $1.57 to $1.70 per share, which includes $15 to $20 million of restructuring and realignment costs and $15 to $20 million of one-time separation costs. This is down from the earlier projection of GAAP net income of $1.72 to $1.89 per share.
Second Quarter Segment Results
Water Infrastructure
Xylem's Water Infrastructure businesses provide equipment and services focused on the transport, treatment and testing of water and wastewater in the public utility and industrial markets.
 
 
Applied Water
Xylem's Applied Water businesses provide equipment and services in the residential and commercial building services, general industrial and agricultural markets.
 
 
 
More detail available
Supplemental information on Xylem's second quarter earnings, including reconciliations for certain non-GAAP items, is posted at investors.xyleminc.com.
About Xylem
Xylem (NYSE: XYL) is a leading global water technology provider, enabling customers to transport, treat, test and efficiently use water in public utility, residential and commercial building services, industrial and agricultural settings. The company does business in more than 150 countries through a number of market-leading product brands, and its people bring broad applications expertise with a strong focus on finding local solutions to the world's most challenging water and wastewater problems. Launched in 2011 from the spinoff of the water-related businesses of ITT Corporation, Xylem is headquartered in White Plains, N.Y., with 2011 annual revenues of $3.8 billion and 12,500 employees worldwide.
The name Xylem is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all  that which occurs in nature. For more information, please visit us at .
www.xyleminc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Generally, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the separation of Xylem Inc. (the "Company") from ITT Corporation, the terms and the effect of the separation, the nature and impact of the separation, capitalization of the Company, future strategic plans and other statements that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future  including statements relating to orders, sales, operating margins and earnings per share growth, and statements expressing general views about future operating results  are forward-looking statements.
Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because they involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED INCOME STATEMENTS (Unaudited)
(in millions, except per share data)
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(in millions)
 
Management views key performance indicators including revenue, gross margins, segment operating income and margins, orders growth, free cash flow, working capital, and backlog, among others. In addition, we consider certain measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity and management of assets. This information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment among competing strategic alternatives and initiatives. These metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for revenue, operating income, net income, earnings per share (basic and diluted) or net cash from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. We consider the following non-GAAP measures, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, to be key performance indicators:
defined as revenue and orders, respectively, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, intercompany transactions, and contributions from acquisitions and divestitures. Divestitures include sales of portions of our business that did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation or insignificant portions of our business that we did not classify as a discontinued operation. The period-over-period change resulting from foreign currency fluctuations assumes no change in exchange rates from the prior period.
"Organic revenue" and "Organic orders"
defined as financial results adjusted for currency by translating current period and prior period activity using the same currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.
"Constant currency"
defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense, and share-based compensation. "Adjusted EBITDA" reflects the adjustment to EBITDA to exclude for one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation.
"EBITDA"
defined as operating income and earnings per share, adjusted to exclude restructuring and realignment and one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation and tax-related special items.
"Operating Income * ", "Adjusted Operating Income" and "Adjusted EPS"
defined as adjusted earnings per share, as well as adjustments to reflect the incremental current period amount of interest expense and stand alone costs in the prior comparable period.
"Normalized EPS"
defined as net cash from operating activities, as reported in the Statement of Cash Flow, less capital expenditures as well as adjustments for other significant items that impact current results which management believes are not related to our ongoing operations and performance. Our definition of free cash flows does not consider non-discretionary cash payments, such as debt.
"Free Cash Flow"
 
Note: Due to rounding the sum of segment amounts may not agree to Xylem totals.
 
Note: Due to rounding the sum of segment amounts may not agree to Xylem totals.
 
 
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 



