FILE:XYL/XYL-8K-20120228080029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is the news release issued by Xylem Inc. on February 28, 2012, announcing the financial results for its fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference are earnings slides posted on Xylem Inc.'s website on February 28, 2012, summarizing Xylem Inc.'s financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. This information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Xylem
1133 Westchester Ave., White Plains, NY 10604
Tel +1.914.323.5700 Fax +1.914.696.2960
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
February 28, 2012  Xylem Inc. (NYSE: XYL) today reported fourth quarter revenue of $1.0 billion, up 7 percent from the fourth quarter 2010, and net income of $52 million or $0.28 per share. Xylem, a leading global water technology company focused on solving the world's most challenging water issues, was spun off from ITT Corporation on October 31, 2011. Excluding the impact of one-time separation costs and other special items, adjusted net income was $74 million or $0.40 per share, up 2 cents or 5 percent from the normalized earnings in the fourth quarter 2010.
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.,
"We drove solid business performance in 2011. We delivered revenue and earnings growth that reflected the strength of our core water and wastewater portfolio, as well as increased activity in the emerging markets, and solid returns from investments in our analytical instrumentation and dewatering businesses," said Gretchen McClain, president and chief executive officer of Xylem. "All of this was accomplished as we worked through the successful launch of our new company. It is a testament to the dedication of our 12,500 employees who focus on solving our customers' water challenges."
For the fourth quarter, Xylem achieved adjusted operating margin of 12.0 percent, including incremental stand-alone costs of $5 million, which reduced margin by 50 basis points. Operating margin in the fourth quarter of 2010 was 11.9 percent.
For the full year 2011, Xylem revenue was $3.8 billion, up 19 percent over 2010. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and positive foreign currency translation, full-year organic revenue growth was 7 percent. Adjusted operating margin was 12.7 percent, up 60 basis points compared to 2010. The $5 million of incremental stand-alone cost incurred in the fourth quarter reduced full-year operating margin by 10 basis points. Full-year reported net income was $279 million, or
 
$1.50 per share. Adjusted net income, excluding the impact of the spinoff and other special items, was $358 million or $1.93 per share, up 45 cents or 30 percent from the normalized earnings in 2010. Strong performance from acquired businesses and working capital improvements helped generate $388 million of free cash flow during the year, which excludes $65 million of cash paid for spinoff-related costs. This represents a 111 percent conversion of adjusted net income.
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Segment Results
Water Infrastructure
Xylem's Water Infrastructure businesses provide equipment and services to water and wastewater transport and treatment, dewatering and analytical instrumentation markets.
 
 
 
 
Applied Water
Xylem's Applied Water businesses provide equipment and services in the residential and commercial building services, industrial and agricultural markets.
 
 
 
 
Full-year 2012 Outlook
Xylem forecasts full-year 2012 revenue in the range of $3.9 billion  $4.0 billion, representing year over year organic growth of 4 percent to 6 percent. Operating margins are anticipated to be in the range of 12.7 to 13.3 percent, excluding spinoff-related costs, but including incremental stand-alone costs of $25 to $30 million as Xylem completes its first full year as an independent company. These stand-alone costs will offset operating margin by 60 to 80 basis
 
points. Full-year 2012 adjusted net income is forecast to be $334 million to $362 million, for adjusted earnings per share of $1.80 to $1.95 for the full year 2012, which reflects expected growth of 8 to 17 percent over normalized 2011. Reported net income, which includes one-time separation costs, is anticipated to range from $319 million to $350 million, or $1.72 to $1.89.
"We've begun 2012 in a strong competitive and financial position," McClain said. "We remain mindful of the pockets of weak economic activity in Europe, and less rapid growth in some of the emerging markets. With our applications expertise, customer focus, market-leading brands, large installed base and superior distribution in more than 150 countries, our portfolio is fundamentally well-positioned to continue growing at a rate faster than the global market. Further, we will continue investing in attractive opportunities, deploying resources to continue growing our core businesses through new product development and innovative applications, while maintaining our ability to make attractive acquisitions."
More detail available
Supplemental information on Xylem's fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings, including reconciliations for certain non-GAAP items, is posted at investors.xyleminc.com.
About Xylem
Xylem (XYL) is a leading global water technology provider, enabling customers to transport, treat, test and efficiently use water in public utility, residential and commercial building services, industrial and agricultural settings. The company does business in more than 150 countries through a number of market-leading product brands, and its people bring broad applications expertise with a strong focus on finding local solutions to the world's most challenging water and wastewater problems. Launched in 2011 from the spinoff of the water-related businesses of ITT Corporation, Xylem is headquartered in White Plains, N.Y., with 2011 annual revenues of $3.8 billion and 12,500 employees worldwide.
The name Xylem is derived from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with the best water transportation of all  that which occurs in nature. For more information, please visit us at .
www.xyleminc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Generally, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the separation of Xylem Inc. (the "Company") from ITT Corporation, the terms and the effect of the separation, the nature and impact of the separation, capitalization of the Company, future strategic plans and other statements that describe the Company's business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future  including statements relating to orders, sales, operating margins and earnings per share growth, and statements expressing general views about future operating results  are forward-looking statements.
 
Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because they involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's historical experience and our present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth in our Registration Statement on Form 10, and those described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED INCOME STATEMENTS
(In Millions, except per share data)
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS
(In Millions, except per share amounts)
 
XYLEM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED CASH FLOWS
(In Millions)
 
 
Management views key performance indicators including revenue, segment operating income and margins, orders growth, and backlog, among others. In addition, we consider certain measures to be useful to management and investors evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented, and provide a tool for evaluating our ongoing operations, liquidity and management of assets. This information can assist investors in assessing our financial performance and measures our ability to generate capital for deployment among competing strategic alternatives and initiatives. These metrics, however, are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for revenues, operating income, net income or net cash from continuing operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. We consider the following non-GAAP measures, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, to be key performance indicators:
defined as revenue and orders, respectively, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, intercompany transactions, and contributions from acquisitions and divestitures. Divestitures include sales of portions of our business that did not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation or insignificant portions of our business that we did not classify as a discontinued operation. The period-over-period change resulting from foreign currency fluctuations assumes no change in exchange rates from the prior period.
"Organic revenue" and "Organic orders"
defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization expense, and share-based compensation. reflects the adjustment to EBITDA to exclude for one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation.
"EBITDA"
"Adjusted EBITDA"
defined as operating income and earnings per share, adjusted to exclude one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation and tax-related special items.
"Operating Income * " and "Adjusted EPS"
defined as earnings per share, adjusted to exclude one-time separation costs associated with the Xylem spin-off from ITT Corporation and tax-related special items, as well to reflect the incremental current period amount of interest expense and stand alone costs in the prior comparable period.
"Normalized EPS"
defined as net cash from operating activities, as reported in the Statement of Cash Flow, less capital expenditures and other significant items that impact current results which management believes are not related to our ongoing operations and performance. Our definition of free cash flows does not consider non-discretionary cash payments, such as debt.
"Free Cash Flow"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 



