ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section and elsewhere in this report, as well as in other reports and proxy statements we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are forward looking statements. Officers and other employees may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward looking. Forward looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, and because these statements involve anticipated events or conditions, forward looking statements often include words such as "anticipate," "assume," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," "indicate," "intend," "may," outlook, "plan," "predict," "project, "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," or similar expressions. Our expectations are not guarantees and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties, and there are several factors many beyond our control that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in price, supply and demand for natural gas and related products; the impact of changes in state and federal legislation and regulation; actions taken by government agencies on rates and other matters; concentration of credit risk; utility and energy industry consolidation; the impact of acquisitions and divestitures; direct or indirect effects on AGL Resources business, financial condition or liquidity resulting from a change in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our counterparties or competitors; interest rate fluctuations; financial market conditions and general economic conditions; uncertainties about environmental issues and the related impact of such issues; the impact of changes in weather on the temperature sensitive portions of the business; the impact of natural disasters such as hurricanes on the supply and price of natural gas; acts of war or terrorism; and other factors that are described in detail in our filings with the SEC. We caution readers that, in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this report, the factors set forth in the section Risk Factors in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, among others, could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition in 2006 and thereafter to differ significantly from those expressed in any forward looking statements. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent circumstances or events. Overview We are a Fortune 1000 energy services holding company whose principal business is the distribution of natural gas in six states Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, Tennessee and Virginia. Our six utilities serve more than 2.2 million end use customers, making us the largest distributor of natural gas in the southeastern and mid Atlantic regions of the United States based on customer count. We also are involved in various related businesses, including retail natural gas marketing to end use customers primarily in Georgia; natural gas asset management and related logistics activities for our own utilities as well as for other nonaffiliated companies; natural gas storage arbitrage and related activities; operation of high deliverability underground natural gas storage assets; and construction and operation of telecommunications conduit and fiber infrastructure within selected metropolitan areas. We manage these businesses through four operating segments distribution operations, retail energy operations, wholesale services and energy investments and a nonoperating corporate segment. The distribution operations segment is the largest component of our business and is regulated by regulatory agencies in six states. These agencies approve rates designed to provide us the opportunity to generate revenues to recover the cost of natural gas delivered to our customers and our fixed and variable costs such as depreciation, interest, maintenance and overhead costs, and to earn a reasonable return for our shareholders. With the exception of Atlanta Gas Light Company (Atlanta Gas Light), our largest utility, the earnings of our regulated utilities are weather sensitive to varying degrees. Although various regulatory mechanisms provide us a reasonable opportunity to recover our fixed costs regardless of natural gas volumes sold, the effect of weather manifests itself in terms of higher earnings during periods of colder weather and lower earnings in warmer weather. Atlanta Gas Light charges rates to its customers primarily on monthly fixed charges. Our retail energy operations segment, which consists of SouthStar Energy Services LLC (SouthStar), also is weather sensitive and uses a variety of hedging strategies to mitigate potential weather impacts. Our Sequent Energy Management, L.P. (Sequent) subsidiary within our wholesale services segment is weather sensitive, with typically increased earnings opportunities during periods of extreme weather conditions. 11 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 86% of our earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from our regulated natural gas distribution business and the sale of natural gas to end use customers primarily in Georgia through SouthStar. This statistic is significant because it represents the portion of our earnings that directly results from the underlying business of supplying natural gas to retail customers. Although SouthStar is not subject to the same regulatory framework as our utilities, it is an integral part of the retail framework for providing gas service to end use customers in the state of Georgia. For more information regarding our measurement of EBIT, see Results of Operations AGL Resources. The remaining 14% of our EBIT was principally derived from businesses that are complementary to our natural gas distribution business. We engage in natural gas asset management and the operation of high deliverability natural gas underground storage as ancillary activities to our utility franchises. These businesses allow us to be opportunistic in capturing incremental value at the wholesale level, provide us with deepened business insight about natural gas market dynamics and facilitate our ability, in the case of asset management, to provide transparency to regulators as to how that value can be captured to benefit our utility customers through profit sharing arrangements. Given the volatile and changing nature of the natural gas resource base in North America and globally, we believe that participation in these related businesses strengthens our business. Our Competitive Strengths We believe our competitive strengths have enabled us to grow our business profitably and create significant shareholder value. These strengths include: Regulated distribution assets located in growing geographic regions Our operations are primarily concentrated along the east coast of the United States, from Florida to New Jersey. We operate primarily urban utility franchises in growing metropolitan areas where we can more effectively deploy technology to improve service delivery and manage costs. We believe the population growth and resulting expansion in business and construction activity in many of the areas we serve should result in increased demand for natural gas and related infrastructure for the foreseeable future. Demonstrated track record of performance through superior execution We continue to focus our efforts on generating significant incremental earnings improvements from each of our businesses. We have been successful in achieving this goal in the past through a combination of business growth, opportunistic acquisitions and controlling or reducing our operating expenses. We achieved these improvements to our operations in part through the implementation of best practices in our businesses, including increased investments in enterprise technology, workforce automation and business process modernization. Our goal is a single operational platform that eliminates duplicate systems and disparate processes among our various companies. Demonstrated ability to acquire and integrate natural gas assets that add significant incremental earnings We take a disciplined approach to identifying strategic natural gas assets that support our long term business plan. For example, our 2004 acquisition of natural gas distribution operations in New Jersey, Florida and Maryland provided us an opportunity to leverage and strengthen one of our core competencies the efficient, low cost operation of natural gas franchises. The disparity between these utilities pre acquisition utility operating metrics and cost structure and those of our other utilities provided us an opportunity to achieve significant improvements in these businesses, which we have been able to do. We will continue to seek and implement better methods of operating in order to improve our service delivery and reduce our costs. In addition, our acquisition of a natural gas storage facility in Louisiana in 2004 added immediate incremental earnings to our business and, given the possibilities for expansion, has the potential to provide prospective earnings growth. Business Accomplishments in 2005 We believe the results of our efforts are clear. We not only delivered solid results to our shareholders again in 2005 but also provided customers with improved service. 12 Table of Contents In 2005, we increased net income 26% over the prior year to $193 million and increased fully diluted earnings per share 9% to $2.48 despite increased average outstanding debt of $549 million and 11 million additional shares outstanding in 2005 due to our public stock offering in November 2004, both of which were related to acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2004. Our Board of Directors raised our annual dividend 19% in November 2005, to an annual rate of $1.48 per share. The increase marked the fourth time in three years our Board has raised the dividend, bringing our payout ratio more in line with other publicly traded energy holding companies and local distribution companies and ensuring a competitive dividend yield relative to alternative investments. We have substantially completed the integration of our two recent acquisitions: NUI Corporation (NUI), which we acquired on November 30, 2004, and Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, LLC (Jefferson Island), which we acquired on October 1, 2004. Jefferson Island became a wholly owned subsidiary and was renamed Pivotal Jefferson Island Storage & Hub, LLC (Pivotal Jefferson Island). In 2005, we consolidated a number of NUIs business technology platforms into our enterprise wide systems, including the accounting, payroll, human resources and supply chain functions. We also consolidated the former NUI utility call center operations into our own centralized call center. The combination of systems integration and the application of our operational model to managing NUI has resulted in significant improvements in its operations, as measured by the various metrics we use to manage our business. As a result of these integration efforts, we believe that we have achieved our performance goal of successfully integrating these acquisitions and making them accretive to our consolidated earnings within one year of the acquisition closing date. We continued business process improvement actions, including the deployment of substantial technology resources, in each of our business units. Additionally, through asset management, producer services and storage arbitrage activities at Sequent, we captured and recognized incremental net income from opportunities in the marketplace as we provided services during and after hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Our operational platform was tested when, during hurricane Rita, Sequent relocated its trading floor from Houston to Richardson, Texas with virtually no service interruptions, in order to keep our commitments to customers and provide continuity in a market where service disruptions were prevalent. Lastly, we worked cooperatively with our regulators during the year. In Georgia, we negotiated a settlement in the Atlanta Gas Light rate case whereby rates billed to customers will not change for a five year period but Atlanta Gas Light will recognize reduced operating revenues of $5 million per year for a total of $25 million over the five year period. 2006 Goals Our fundamental business goals do not significantly change from one year to the next. However, we continue to refine our goals, taking into consideration our prior financial and operational performance and those external factors impacting not only us and the natural gas industry, but also the global marketplace. We are focused on delivering earnings and income growth by effectively managing our gas distribution operations; selectively growing our gas distribution businesses through acquisitions; and developing our portfolio of closely related unregulated businesses. Impact of Hurricanes on AGL Resources and Our Industry The natural gas production, processing and pipeline infrastructure in the Gulf of Mexico was significantly affected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita in August and September 2005. This resulted in higher prices and increased price volatility for natural gas, which we and the Energy Information Administration expected would significantly increase the cost to heat a home during the current heating season. Natural gas prices moderated by the end of 2005 and early 2006, and weather has been warmer than normal thus far in 2006, but we still expect home heating costs to be significantly higher in the first quarter of 2006 compared to prior years. The impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita on natural gas prices and transportation costs created diverse offsetting effects on our business. Increased energy and transportation prices are expected to consume a significantly larger portion of consumer household incomes during the remaining winter heating season (first quarter of 2006), raising the possibility that we will experience some additional bad debt expense, as well as some margin erosion from increased consumer conservation. These higher prices have thus far been mitigated in part by significantly warmer than normal temperatures in the eastern United States during the first half of the heating season. While we expect these factors to have some impact on our financial results, primarily in the first half of 2006, we expect the regulatory and operational mechanisms in place in most of our jurisdictions will help mitigate our exposures to high natural gas prices. Natural gas price volatility during 2005 made it further evident that we and our customers need to diversify our sources of natural gas supply. We receive the majority of our natural gas supplies from a production region in and around the Gulf of Mexico and generally, demand for this natural gas is growing faster than supply. This increased demand can often lead to higher natural gas prices and greater price volatility. We believe a diversification of our supply portfolio, in an effort to moderate prices, is in our customers best interest. We may need, from time to time, to invest in new projects to improve the viability of such portfolio diversification and would expect to earn regulated returns on such investments. 13 Table of Contents The market dynamics brought on by the two hurricanes presented opportunities for Sequent, and for our utilities through Sequents affiliate asset management agreements. Sequent drew on its knowledge of the natural gas grid to move gas from supply sources and deliver it to its customers, which involved moving gas over less traditional routes due to Gulf Coast infrastructure limitations. For additional information regarding the impacts of these hurricanes on our business, see Results of Operations Distribution Operations and Results of Operations Wholesale Services. Regulatory Environment We continue to manage the ongoing challenge of operating in a regulatory environment that generally does not measure or reward innovation and operational efficiency. In particular, traditional "cost of service" regulation, which was originally designed to simulate the actions of a competitive market, has not kept pace with the vast changes taking place in the natural gas industry, in technology utilization and in the global economy. These are factors that to various degrees affect our company. The staffs of various state rate setting agencies have argued for significantly lower rates of return on regulated investments without adequate attention to the effects those lower returns might have on capital reinvestment in the companys regulated asset base; the opportunity cost to customers of not providing better and more efficient services; and the disincentive for excellence in management and operations that such returns create. Much of the rate setting is done in adversarial proceedings where rules of evidence and due process can vary greatly among the states. As a result of these ongoing regulatory challenges, we will continue to work cooperatively with our regulators, legislators and others as we seek, through rate freezes and performance based rates, to create a framework in each jurisdiction that is conducive to our business goals. Furthermore, we will continue to make strategic investments in energy related businesses that either are not subject to traditional state and federal rate regulation or are subject to limited oversight in order to add value for our shareholders. In August 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act) was enacted. The Energy Act authorized many broad energy policy provisions including significant funding for consumers and businesses for energy related activities, energy related tax credits, accelerated depreciation for certain natural gas utility infrastructure investments and the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (PUHCA). The effective date of the PUHCA repeal is February 8, 2006. We continue to evaluate the Energy Act, but we expect to benefit from provisions in the legislation that will support our efforts to promote energy efficiency in a manner that benefits customers and shareholders. The Energy Act gives the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) increased authority over utility merger and acquisition activity, removes many of the geographic and structural restrictions on the ownership of public utilities and eliminates certain regulatory burdens. Some of the SEC reporting requirements, financing authorizations and affiliate relationship approvals that previously applied to us under the PUHCA were replaced by the requirements of the Energy Act. In addition, the Energy Act requires a public utility holding company to maintain its books and records and make them available to the FERC and to comply with certain reporting requirements. However, the FERC may exempt a class of entities or class of transactions if the FERC finds that they are not relevant to the jurisdictional rate of a public utility or natural gas company. In February 2006, we requested an exemption from Energy Act oversight of our local distribution companies that were previously exempt from regulation by the FERC. Our filing request will provide us with a temporary exemption. If the FERC has not taken action within 60 days of our request, the exemption shall be deemed to have been granted. We expect to qualify for an exemption from these reporting requirements. For more information regarding pending federal and state regulatory matters, see Results of Operations Distribution Operations and Results of Operations Wholesale Services. 14 Table of Contents Results of Operations AGL Resources Our results of operations for 2004 included three months of the acquired operations of Jefferson Island and one month of the acquired operations of NUI. Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46) as revised, which we adopted in January 2004, we consolidated SouthStars accounts with our subsidiaries accounts as of January 1, 2004. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we recorded the Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (Piedmont) portion of SouthStars earnings as a minority interest in our statements of consolidated income and the Piedmont portion of SouthStars contributed capital as a minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets. We eliminated any intercompany profits between segments. In 2003, we accounted for our 70% noncontrolling financial ownership interest in SouthStar using the equity method of accounting because SouthStar did not meet the definition of a variable interest entity under FIN 46. Under the equity method, we reported our ownership interest in SouthStar as an investment in our consolidated balance sheets, and we reported our share of SouthStars earnings based on our ownership percentage in our statements of consolidated income as a component of other income. Seasonality The operating revenues and EBIT of our distribution operations, retail energy operations and wholesale services segments are seasonal. During the heating season (October March), natural gas usage and operating revenues are higher because generally more customers are connected to our distribution systems and because natural gas usage is higher in periods of colder weather than in periods of warmer weather. Approximately 70% of these segments operating revenues and EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2005 were generated during the six month heating season and are reflected in our consolidated income statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2005. Our base operating expenses, excluding cost of gas, interest expense and certain incentive compensation costs, are incurred relatively equally over any given year. Thus our operating results vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality. Seasonality also affects the comparison of certain balance sheet items such as receivables, unbilled revenue, inventories and short term debt across quarters. Hedging Changes in commodity prices subject a significant portion of our operations to variability. Commodity prices tend to be higher in colder months. Our nonutility businesses principally use physical and financial arrangements to economically hedge the risks associated with both seasonal fluctuations and changing commodity prices. In addition, because these economic hedges are generally not designated for hedge accounting treatment, our reported earnings for the wholesale services and retail energy operations segments reflect changes in the fair values of certain derivatives; these values may change significantly from period to period. Elizabethtown Gas utilizes certain derivatives to hedge the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas prices. These derivative products are marked to market each reporting period. In accordance with regulatory requirements, realized gains and losses related to these derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and ultimately included in billings to customers. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected as a regulatory asset (loss) or liability (gain), as appropriate, in our consolidated balance sheets. Revenues We generate nearly all our operating revenues through the sale, distribution and storage of natural gas. We include in our consolidated revenues an estimate of revenues from natural gas distributed, but not yet billed, to residential and commercial customers from the latest meter reading date to the end of the reporting period. We record these estimated revenues as unbilled revenues in our consolidated balance sheets. 15 Table of Contents Operating Margin and EBIT We evaluate the performance of our operating segments using the measures of operating margin and EBIT. We believe operating margin is a better indicator than revenues for the contribution resulting from customer growth in our distribution operations segment since the cost of gas can vary significantly and is generally passed directly to our customers. We also consider operating margin to be a better indicator in our retail energy operations, wholesale services and energy investments segments since it is a direct measure of gross profit before overhead costs. We believe EBIT is a useful measurement of our operating segments performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of our businesses from an operational perspective, exclusive of the costs to finance those activities and exclusive of income taxes, neither of which is directly relevant to the efficiency of those operations. Our operating margin and EBIT are not measures that are considered to be calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). You should not consider operating margin or EBIT an alternative to, or a more meaningful indicator of, our operating performance than operating income or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our operating margin or EBIT measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of our operating margin and EBIT to our operating income and net income, together with other consolidated financial information for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004; and pro forma results as if SouthStars accounts were consolidated with our subsidiaries accounts for the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma results are presented for comparative purposes as a result of our consolidation of SouthStars accounts with our subsidiaries accounts as of January 1, 2004. This pro forma basis is a non GAAP presentation; however, we believe it is useful to readers of our financial statements since it presents our revenues and expenses for 2003 on the same basis as 2005 and 2004. In millions 2005 2004 Pro forma 2003 Operating revenues $ 2,718 $ 1,832 $ 1,557 Cost of gas 1,626 995 789 Operating margin 1,092 837 768 Operating expenses Operation and maintenance 477 377 343 Depreciation and amortization 133 99 92 Taxes other than income 40 29 28 Total operating expenses 650 505 463 Gain on sale of Caroline Street campus 16 Operating income 442 332 321 Other losses (1 ) (6 ) Minority interest (22 ) (18 ) (17 ) EBIT 419 314 298 Interest expense 109 71 75 Earnings before income taxes 310 243 223 Income taxes 117 90 87 Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 193 153 136 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (8 ) Net income $ 193 $ 153 $ 128 Basic earnings per common share: Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 2.50 $ 2.30 $ 2.15 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (0.12 ) Basic earnings per common share $ 2.50 $ 2.30 $ 2.03 Fully diluted earnings per common share: Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 2.48 $ 2.28 $ 2.13 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (0.12 ) Fully diluted earnings per common share $ 2.48 $ 2.28 $ 2.01 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Basic 77.3 66.3 63.1 Diluted 77.8 67.0 63.7 16 Table of Contents Segment information Operating revenues, operating margin and EBIT information for each of our segments are presented in the following table for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: In millions Operating revenues Operating margin EBIT 2005 Distribution operations $ 1,753 $ 814 $ 299 Retail energy operations 996 146 63 Wholesale services 95 92 49 Energy investments 56 40 19 Corporate (1) (182 ) (11 ) Consolidated $ 2,718 $ 1,092 $ 419 2004 Distribution operations $ 1,111 $ 640 $ 247 Retail energy operations 827 132 52 Wholesale services 54 53 24 Energy investments 25 13 7 Corporate (1) (185 ) (1 ) (16 ) Consolidated $ 1,832 $ 837 $ 314 2003 Distribution operations $ 936 $ 599 $ 247 Retail energy operations (2) 743 124 46 Wholesale services 41 40 20 Energy investments 6 5 (3 ) Corporate (1) (2) (169 ) (12 ) Consolidated $ 1,557 $ 768 $ 298 (1) Includes the elimination of intercompany revenues. (2) Includes pro forma results as if SouthStars accounts were consolidated with our subsidiaries accounts. In the following table, our reported results in 2003 are reconciled to the pro forma presentation presented in the tables above. In 2003, we recognized our portion of SouthStars earnings of $46 million as equity earnings. The amounts presented below for SouthStar represent 100% of its revenues and expenses for 2003 and include minority interest which adjusts our 80% share of SouthStars earnings to reflect Piedmonts and Dynegy Inc.s share of SouthStars earnings. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 As South Elimin Pro In millions Reported Star ations Forma Operating revenues $ 983 $ 743 $ (169 ) $ 1,557 Cost of gas 339 619 (169 ) 789 Operating margin 644 124 768 Operating expenses Operation and maintenance 283 60 343 Depreciation and amortization 91 1 92 Taxes other than income 28 28 Total operating expenses 402 61 463 Gain on sale of Caroline Street campus 16 16 Operating income 258 63 321 Equity earnings from SouthStar 46 (46 ) Other losses (6 ) (6 ) Minority interest (17 ) (17 ) EBIT 298 46 (46 ) 298 Interest expense 75 75 Earnings before income taxes 223 46 (46 ) 223 Income taxes 87 87 Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ 136 $ 46 $ (46 ) $ 136 Discussion of Consolidated Results 2005 compared to 2004 Our earnings per share and net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 were higher than the prior year due to the acquisitions of NUI and Jefferson Island combined with strong contributions from our wholesale services and retail energy operations businesses. Consolidated EBIT for 2005 increased by $105 million or 33% from the previous year, of which $56 million related to EBIT contributions from the 2004 acquisitions of NUI and Jefferson Island and from Pivotal Propane of Virginia, Inc. (Pivotal Propane) which became operational in 2005. The increase further reflected increased contributions of $8 million from Atlanta Gas Light in distribution operations, $11 million from retail energy operations and $3 million from AGL Networks, LLC (AGL Networks) in energy investments. Wholesale services EBIT increased $25 million primarily due to increased operating margins partially offset by higher operating expenses. The corporate segment improved by $5 million as compared to last year primarily due to merger and acquisition related costs incurred in 2004 but not in 2005. Operating margin increased $255 million or 30%, primarily reflecting the NUI and Pivotal Jefferson Island acquisitions and completion of the Pivotal Propane facility in Virginia, as well as improved margins at SouthStar, Sequent and AGL Networks. Excluding the addition of the NUI utilities, distribution operations margins improved by $8 million mainly as a result of higher pipeline replacement revenues and additional carrying costs charged to retail marketers in Georgia for gas storage. Retail energy operations margins were up $14 million, due primarily to higher commodity margins. Wholesale services operating margin increased $39 million year over year, primarily due to activity during the third and fourth quarters of 2005. Energy investments margins were also up $27 million, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Jefferson Island that contributed $13 million; contributions from NUIs nonutility businesses of $8 million; contribution from Pivotal Propane of $3 million; and improved operating margin at AGL Networks of $4 million. 17 Table of Contents Operating expenses increased $145 million or 29%, primarily as a result of $124 million in higher expenses at distribution operations due to the addition of NUI. In addition, operating expenses at energy investments increased $15 million due to the addition of Jefferson Island, the NUI nonutility assets and Pivotal Propane. Operating expenses at wholesale services increased $13 million due to increased payroll and employee incentive compensation costs resulting from its operational and financial growth and depreciation on a trading and risk management system placed in service during 2004. The increased operating expenses were offset by lower corporate operating expenses primarily due to prior year costs incurred with merger and acquisition activities. Interest expense for 2005 was $109 million, or $38 million higher than in 2004. As indicated in the table below, higher short term interest rates and higher debt outstanding combined to increase our interest expense in 2005 relative to the previous year. The increase of $549 million in average debt outstanding for 2005 compared to 2004 was due to additional debt incurred as a result of the acquisitions of NUI and Jefferson Island, and higher working capital requirements as a result of higher natural gas prices. Dollars in millions 2005 2004 Total interest expense $ 109 $ 71 Average debt outstanding (1) 1,823 1,274 Average interest rate 6.0 % 5.6 % (1) Daily average of all outstanding debt We anticipate our interest expense in 2006 will be higher than in 2005 due to higher projected interest rates. Based on $728 million of variable rate debt, which includes $522 million of our short term debt, $100 million of variable rate senior notes and $106 million of variable rate gas facility revenue bonds outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 100 basis point change in market interest rates from 4.7% to 5.7% would result in an increase in annual pretax interest expense of $7 million. The increase in income tax expense of $27 million or 30% for 2005 compared to 2004 reflected additional income taxes of $25 million due to higher corporate earnings year over year and $2 million due to a slightly higher effective tax rate of 38% for 2005 as compared to 37% in 2004. We expect our effective tax rate for the year ending December 31, 2006 to be similar to the effective rate for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result of our 11 million share equity offering in November 2004, earnings results for the year are based on weighted average shares outstanding of 77.3 million, while 2004 results were based on weighted average shares outstanding of 66.3 million. 2004 compared to 2003 Our EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2004 was higher than the prior year due to stronger contributions from our wholesale services business and retail energy operations and from the acquisitions of NUI and Jefferson Island. Consolidated EBIT for 2004 increased $16 million or 5% as compared to 2003, of which $10 million related to EBIT contributions from our acquisitions of NUI ($7 million) and Jefferson Island ($3 million) during the fourth quarter of 2004. Distribution operations EBIT for 2004 remained relatively flat as compared to 2003. For comparison purposes, however, distribution operations EBIT in 2004 increased by $13 million after excluding the effect of a net $13 million pretax gain on the sales of company property and a related charitable contribution in 2003.The increase further reflected increased contributions from SouthStar in retail energy operations of $6 million, AGL Networks in energy investments of $3 million and Sequent in wholesale services of $4 million. Additionally, our energy investments segment had a $4 million increase in EBIT due to the 2004 sale of Heritage Propane and of a residential development property in Savannah, Georgia. These increases were partially offset by lower contributions of $4 million from our corporate segment due to increased outside service costs associated with software maintenance, licensing and implementation of our work management project, higher costs due to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX 404) compliance efforts and merger and acquisition related costs. Our operating margin for 2004 increased $69 million or 9% as compared to 2003 pro forma operating margin, primarily reflecting the 2004 NUI and Jefferson Island acquisitions, which contributed $29 million. Sequent, SouthStar and AGL Networks also had improved 2004 operating margins of $13 million, $8 million (on a pro forma basis) and $2 million, respectively. Excluding the addition of the NUI utilities, distribution operations margins improved by $17 million mainly at Atlanta Gas Light and Virginia Natural Gas. Atlanta Gas Lights operating margin increased as a result of higher pipeline replacement revenues, additional carrying costs charged to retail marketers in Georgia for gas storage, customer growth and higher customer usage. Virginia Natural Gas operating margin increased primarily due to customer growth. 18 Table of Contents Operating expenses increased $42 million on a pro forma basis or 9% primarily as a result of $19 million in higher expenses due to the additions of NUI and Jefferson Island. In addition, operating expenses at wholesale services increased $9 million due to increased outside service costs related to its energy trading and risk management system and SOX 404 compliance projects and an increase in the number of employees, as well as increased depreciation. Excluding the effects of our acquisition of NUI, distribution operations expenses increased $10 million as a result of increased costs related to information technology projects, SOX 404 compliance and depreciation expense, offset by decreased bad debt expense. Our corporate segment also had a $6 million increase in operating expenses primarily from increased outside service costs associated with software maintenance, licensing and implementation projects, as well as for SOX 404 compliance efforts and merger and acquisition activities. These increased operating expenses were offset by a $2 million decrease at SouthStar on a pro forma basis mainly due to lower bad debt expense offset by higher corporate allocated overhead and SOX 404 compliance costs. Interest expense for 2004 was $71 million or $4 million lower than in 2003. As shown in the following table, a favorable interest rate environment and the issuance of lower interest long term debt combined to lower the companys interest expense in 2004 relative to the previous year. The increase of $19 million in average debt outstanding for 2004 compared to 2003 was due to additional debt incurred as a result of the acquisitions of NUI and Jefferson Island. Dollars in millions 2004 2003 Total interest expense $ 71 $ 75 Average debt outstanding (1) 1,274 1,255 Average interest rate 5.6 % 6.0 % (1) Daily average of all outstanding debt. The increase in income tax expense of $3 million or 3% for 2004 compared to 2003 reflected $8 million of additional income taxes due to higher corporate earnings year over year, offset by a $5 million decrease in income taxes due to a decrease in the effective tax rate from 39% in 2003 to 37% in 2004. The decline in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of income tax adjustments recorded in the third quarter of 2004 in connection with our annual comparison of filed tax returns to related income tax accruals. As a result of our 11 million share equity offering in November 2004, earnings results for the year are based on weighted average shares outstanding of 66.3 million, while 2003 results were based on weighted average shares outstanding of 63.1 million. 19 Table of Contents Distribution Operations Distribution operations includes our natural gas local distribution utility companies that construct, manage and maintain natural gas pipelines and distribution facilities and serve more than 2.2 million end use customers. The following table provides operational information for our larger utilities. The daily capacity represents total system capability, and the storage capacity includes on system liquefied natural gas (LNG) and propane volumes. Atlanta Gas Light Elizabethtown Gas Virginia Natural Gas Florida City Gas Chattanooga Gas Operations Average end use customers (in thousands) 1,545 266 261 103 61 Daily capacity (1) 2.5 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.2 Storage capacity (1) 49.4 13.6 9.6 3.6 Annual distribution (1) 232 59 36 10 16 2005 peak day demand (1) 1.9 0.4 0.4 0.04 0.1 Peak storage capacity (1) 6.2 0.1 0.8 1.2 Average monthly throughput (1) 19.3 4.9 3.0 0.8 1.4 Miles of pipeline 30,427 4,948 5,106 3,162 1,521 Rates Last decision on change in rates Jun. 2005 Nov. 2002 Oct. 1996 Feb. 2004 Oct. 2004 Authorized return on rate base 8.53% 7.95% 9.24% 7.36% 7.43% Estimated 2005 return on rate base (2) (3) 8.68% 6.54% 8.71% 6.25% 7.88% Authorized return on equity 10.9% 10.0% 10.9% 11.25% 10.2% Estimated 2005 return on equity (2) (3) 11.21% 6.37% 10.51% 8.32% 11.47% Authorized rate base % of equity (4) 47.9% 53.0% 52.4% 36.8% 35.5% Rate base included in 2005 return on equity (in millions) (3) (4) $1,181 $433 $321 $118 $96 (1) In millions of dekatherms. (2) Estimate based on principles consistent with utility ratemaking in each jurisdiction. Returns are not consistent with GAAP returns. (3) Estimated based on 13 month average. (4) Rate base for Elizabethtown Gas based on amounts filed in a 2002 rate case; however, no specific rate base was authorized due to settlement by stipulation with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. A 53% rate base of equity for Elizabethtown Gas was authorized in most recent rate case; however, 50% is used for rate of return calculation purposes based on estimated current regulatory capital structure. Each utility operates subject to regulations provided by the state regulatory agency in its service territories with respect to rates charged to our customers, maintenance of accounting records, and various other service and safety matters. Rates charged to our customers vary according to customer class (residential, commercial or industrial) and rate jurisdiction. Rates are set at levels that allow recovery of all prudently incurred costs, including a return on rate base sufficient to pay interest on debt and provide a reasonable return on common equity. Rate base consists generally of the original cost of utility plant in service, working capital, inventories and certain other assets; less accumulated depreciation on utility plant in service, net deferred income tax liabilities and certain other deductions. Our utilities are authorized to use a purchased gas adjustment (PGA) mechanism that allows them to automatically adjust their rates to reflect changes in the wholesale cost of natural gas and to ensure the utilities recover 100% of the costs incurred in purchasing gas for their customers. We continuously monitor the performance of our utilities to determine whether rates need to be further adjusted by making a rate case filing. Increased Natural Gas Prices, Bad Debt and Conservation Increased prices of natural gas are being driven by increased demand that is exceeding the growth in available supply. The hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region during the late summer and early fall of 2005 impacted the availability of natural gas supply, causing a dramatic rise in natural gas prices. These higher prices have thus far been mitigated in part by significantly warmer than normal temperatures in the eastern United States during the first half of the heating season. We expect our customers will incur increases in their bills during the remainder of the current winter heating season. An increase in the cost of gas due to higher natural gas commodity costs generally has no direct effect on our utilitys net operating margins and net income due to the PGA mechanisms at our utilities. However, net income may be reduced as a result of higher expenses that may be incurred for bad debt, as well as lower volumes of natural gas deliveries to customers due to customer conservation and thus lower natural gas consumption. 20 Table of Contents These risks of increased bad debt expense and decreased operating margins from conservation are minimized at our largest utility, Atlanta Gas Light, as a result of its straight fixed variable rate structure and because customers in Georgia buy gas from certificated marketers rather than from Atlanta Gas Light. Our credit exposure at Atlanta Gas Light is primarily related to the provision of services for the certificated marketers, but that exposure is mitigated because we obtain security support in an amount equal to a minimum of two times a marketers highest months estimated bill. As part of our integration strategy, we have implemented measures at our New Jersey and Florida utilities to collect delinquent accounts; these measures are similar to our processes at Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas. Across our utility system, bad debt levels are lower year to date than they have been in previous years, and we will continue to monitor and mitigate the impact of uncollectible expenses. We are partnering with regulators and state agencies in each of our jurisdictions to educate customers about these issues, and particularly to ensure that those who qualify for Low Income Home Energy Assistance funds and similar programs receive that assistance. Competition Our distribution operations businesses face competition based on customer preferences for natural gas compared to other energy products and the comparative prices of those products. Our principal competition relates to electric utilities and oil and propane providers serving the residential and small commercial markets throughout our service areas and the potential displacement or replacement of natural gas appliances with electric appliances. The primary competitive factors are the price of energy and the desirability of natural gas heating versus alternative heating sources. Competition for space heating and general household and small commercial energy needs generally occurs at the initial installation phase when the customer/builder makes decisions as to which types of equipment to install. Customers generally continue to use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment. Customer demand for natural gas could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy general economic conditions energy conservation legislation and regulations the capability to convert from natural gas to alternative fuels weather In some of our service areas net growth continues to be slowed due to the number of customers who leave our systems because of higher natural gas prices and competition from alternative fuel sources, including incentives offered by the local electric utilities to switch to electric heat alternatives. We expect customer growth to improve in the future through our efforts in new business and retention. These efforts include working to add residential customers with three or more appliances, multifamily complexes and high value commercial customers that use natural gas for purposes other than space heating. In addition, we partner with numerous entities to market the benefits of gas appliances and to identify potential retention options early in the process for those customers who might consider leaving our franchise by converting to alternative fuels. Atlanta Gas Light This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities throughout Georgia. Atlanta Gas Light is regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission (Georgia Commission). Prior to Georgias 1997 Natural Gas Competition and Deregulation Act (Deregulation Act), which deregulated Georgias natural gas market, Atlanta Gas Light was the supplier and seller of natural gas to its customers. Today, Marketersthat is, marketers who are certificated by the Georgia Commission to sell retail natural gas in Georgia at rates and on terms approved by the Georgia Commission sell natural gas to end use customers in Georgia and handle customer billing functions. Atlanta Gas Lights role includes distributing natural gas for Marketers constructing, operating and maintaining the gas system infrastructure, including responding to customer service calls and leaks reading meters and maintaining underlying customer premise information for Marketers Since 1998, a number of federal and state proceedings have addressed the role of Atlanta Gas Light in administering and assigning interstate assets to Marketers pursuant to the provisions of the Deregulation Act. In this role, Atlanta Gas Light is authorized to offer additional sales services pursuant to Georgia Commission approved tariffs and to acquire and continue managing the interstate transportation and storage contracts that underlie the sales services provided to Marketers on its distribution system under Georgia Commission approved tariffs. 21 Table of Contents Rate Settlement Agreement In June 2005, the Georgia Commission approved a Settlement Agreement with Atlanta Gas Light that froze Atlanta Gas Lights base rates billed to customers as of April 30, 2005 through April 30, 2010. The Settlement Agreement also requires Atlanta Gas Light to recognize reduced revenues of $25 million over the same period, to spend $2 million annually on energy conservation programs and to spend an additional $2 million for social responsibility and education programs. The Settlement Agreement was effective for rates as of May 1, 2005. Atlanta Gas Light offset the impact of the Settlement Agreement on its 2005 EBIT by identifying and implementing reductions in its operating costs and by realizing increased operating margins from net customer growth in 2005. During the term of the Settlement Agreement, Atlanta Gas Light will not seek a rate increase, nor will the Georgia Commission initiate a new rate proceeding. Atlanta Gas Light will file information equivalent to information that would be required for a general rate case on November 1, 2009, with new rates to be effective on May 1, 2010. The Settlement Agreement establishes an authorized return on equity of 10.9% for Atlanta Gas Light, resulting in an overall rate of return of 8.53%. Prior to the settlement, Atlanta Gas Lights authorized return on equity was 11% and its overall return was set at 9.16%. The Settlement Agreement extends Atlanta Gas Lights pipeline replacement program (PRP) by five years to require that all replacements be completed by December 2013 and sets the per customer PRP rate to be billed at $1.29 per customer per month from May 2005 through September 2008 and at $1.95 from October 2008 through December 2013. Atlanta Gas Light will apply the five year total reduction in recognized base rate revenues of $25 million to the amount of costs incurred to replace pipe, reducing the amount recovered from customers under the PRP. The timing of replacements was subsequently specified in an amendment to the PRP stipulation. This amendment, which was approved by the Georgia Commission on December 20, 2005, requires Atlanta Gas Light to replace the remaining 152 miles of cast iron pipe and 70% of the remaining 687 miles of bare steel pipe by December 2010. The remaining 30% of bare steel pipe is required to be replaced by December 2013. The amendment requires an evaluation by Atlanta Gas Light and the Georgia Commission staff of 22 miles of 24 inch pipe in Atlanta by December 2010 to determine if such pipe requires replacement. If replacement of this pipe is required, the pipe must be replaced by December 2013. The additional cost to replace this pipe is projected to be approximately $37 million. The Settlement Agreement includes a provision that allows for a true up of any over or under recovery of PRP revenues that may result from a difference between PRP charges collected through fixed rates and actual PRP revenues recognized through the remainder of the program. Atlanta Gas Light will be allowed under the Settlement Agreement to recover through the PRP $4 million of the $32 million in capital costs associated with its March 2005 purchase of 250 miles of pipeline in central Georgia from Southern Natural Gas Company (SNG), a subsidiary of El Paso Corporation. We expect the acquired pipeline to improve deliverable capacity and reliability of the storage capacity from our LNG facility in Macon to our markets in Atlanta. The remaining capital costs are included in Atlanta Gas Lights rate base and collected through base rates. Straight Fixed Variable Rates Atlanta Gas Lights revenue is recognized under a straight fixed variable rate design whereby Atlanta Gas Light charges rates to its customers based primarily on monthly fixed charges. This mechanism minimizes the seasonality of revenues since the fixed charge is not volumetric and the monthly charges are not set to be directly weather dependent. Weather indirectly influences the number of customers that have active accounts during the heating season, and this has a seasonal impact on Atlanta Gas Lights revenues since generally more customers are connected in periods of colder weather than in periods of warmer weather. Elizabethtown Gas This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities in central and northwestern New Jersey. Most Elizabethtown Gas customers are located in densely populated central New Jersey, where increases in the number of customers primarily result from conversions to gas heating from alternative forms of heating. In the northwestern region of the state, customer additions are driven primarily by new construction. Elizabethtown Gas is regulated by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU). Weather Normalization The Elizabethtown Gas tariff contains a weather normalization clause that is designed to help stabilize Elizabethtown Gas results by increasing base rate amounts charged to customers when weather is warmer than normal and decreasing amounts charged when weather is colder than normal. The weather normalization clause was renewed in October 2004 and is based on a 20 year average of weather conditions. 22 Table of Contents Pipeline Replacement In April 2005, Elizabethtown Gas presented the NJBPU with a proposal to accelerate the replacement of approximately 88 miles of 8 to 12 diameter elevated pressure cast iron pipe. Under the proposal, approximately $42 million in estimated capital costs incurred over a three year period would be recovered through a pipeline replacement rider similar to the program in effect at Atlanta Gas Light. If the program as proposed is approved, cost recovery would occur on a one year lag basis, with collections starting on October 1, 2006 and extending through December 31, 2009, after which time the program would be rolled into base rates. On December 7, 2005, Elizabethtown Gas filed testimony in support of its proposal. The proposal and related testimony will be considered in the following timeframe: The New Jersey Rate Payer Advocate will file testimony on February 28, 2006. Elizabethtown Gas will file rebuttal testimony on March 17, 2006. Public hearings will convene on March 30, 2006. Virginia Natural Gas This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities in southeastern Virginia. Virginia Natural Gas is regulated by the Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission). Performance based Rates In March 2005, the Virginia Commission staff issued a report alleging that Virginia Natural Gas rates were excessive and that its rates should be adjusted to produce a $15 million reduction in revenue. The staff also filed a motion requesting that Virginia Natural Gas rates be declared interim and subject to refund. In April 2005, Virginia Natural Gas responded to the staffs report and motion, contesting the allegations in the report and objecting to the motion filed by the staff. On April 29, 2005, the Virginia Commission ordered the staffs motion to be held in abeyance and directed Virginia Natural Gas to file a rate case by July 2005. In July 2005, Virginia Natural Gas filed a performance based rate (PBR) plan with the Virginia Commission and included the schedules required for a general rate case in support of its proposal. Under the PBR plan, Virginia Natural Gas proposes to freeze base rates at their 1996 levels for 5 additional years. This would provide Virginia Natural Gas customers an additional 5 years of rate stability, for a total of 14 years without a rate increase. If the Virginia Commission approves the proposal, Virginia Natural Gas will become the first Virginia natural gas utility to operate under a 1996 state law that authorized PBR plans for natural gas utilities. Consistent with state law, Virginia Natural Gas has proposed two exceptions that allow for adjustments to frozen base rates. Virginia Natural Gas could request a rate adjustment in connection with (1) any changes in taxation of gas utility revenues by the Commonwealth and (2) any financial distress of Virginia Natural Gas beyond its control. Based on the Virginia Commissions scheduling order issued on July 14, 2005, current rates will stay in effect until the PBR is decided; consequently, there was no impact on Virginia Natural Gas 2005 revenues. Based on this scheduling order and the Virginia Commissions approval of requests for extension made by the Virginia Commission staff in December 2005, the PBR proposal to freeze rates for another five years will be considered on the following timeframe: Virginia Commission staff filed its testimony and exhibits on January 24, 2006 and requested a $10 million rate decrease Virginia Natural Gas filed rebuttal testimony and exhibits on February 7, 2006 public evidentiary hearings will convene on February 21, 2006 The Virginia state law authorizing PBR plans also allows a utility to withdraw or modify its PBR application at any time prior to a final ruling by the Virginia Commission. Virginia Natural Gas is currently evaluating the withdrawal or modification of its PBR plan in light of current market conditions including rising interest rates, tight natural gas supplies, rising costs and material constraints caused by lower oil supplies. If the PBR plan is not approved or is modified by the Virginia Commission in a manner that Virginia Natural Gas chooses not to accept, the Virginia Commission can take action in the general rate case filing. Virginia Natural Gas proposal would not affect its Virginia Commission authorized purchased gas cost, which passes gas commodity costs through to consumers. 23 Table of Contents On January 12, 2006, Virginia Natural Gas filed with the Virginia Commission a proposed motion for approval of Virginia Natural Gas PBR plan. If the proposed motion is approved, the PBR plan would be implemented as filed and Virginia Natural Gas would commit to certain actions, primarily to construct a pipeline that would connect Virginia Natural Gas northern system to its southern system. Participants in and supporters of the proposed motion include Virginia Natural Gas; AGL Resources; the Virginia Office of the Attorney General Division of Consumer Counsel; and the Virginia Industrial Gas Users Association. On February 3, 2006, the Virginia Commissions hearing examiner recommended that the Virginia Commission approve the PBR plan. Accordingly, the rate case schedule remains as previously stipulated. Weather Normalization Adjustment (WNA) In September 2002, the Virginia Commission approved a WNA program as a two year experiment involving the use of special rates. The WNA programs purpose is to reduce the effect of weather on customer bills by reducing bills when winter weather is colder than normal and increasing bills when winter weather is warmer than normal. In September 2004, Virginia Natural Gas received approval from the Virginia Commission to extend the WNA program for an additional two years with certain modifications to the existing program. The significant modifications include removal of the commercial class of customers from the WNA program and the use of a rolling 30 year average to calculate the weather factor that is updated annually. Florida City Gas This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities in central and southern Florida. Florida City Gas customers purchase gas primarily for heating water, drying clothes and cooking. Some customers, mainly in central Florida, also purchase gas to provide space heating during the winter season. Florida City Gas is regulated by the Florida Public Service Commission. Chattanooga Gas This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities in the Chattanooga and Cleveland areas of southeastern Tennessee. Chattanooga Gas base rates include a weather normalization clause that allows for revenue to be recognized based on a factor derived from average temperatures over a 30 year period, which offsets the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on its operating income. Chattanooga Gas is regulated by the Tennessee Regulatory Authority (Tennessee Authority). Base Rate Increase In June 2005, the Tennessee Authority upheld its previous October 2004 order denying Chattanooga Gas a $4 million rate increase. The October 2004 order approved an increase of approximately $1 million based on a 10.2% return on equity and a capital structure of 35.5% common equity. Elkton Gas This natural gas local distribution utility operates distribution systems and related facilities serving approximately 5,800 customers in Cecil County, Maryland. Elkton Gas customers are approximately 7% commercial and industrial and 93% residential. Elkton Gas is regulated by the Maryland Public Service Commission. Results of Operations The following table presents results of operations for distribution operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Operating revenues $ 1,753 $ 1,111 $ 936 Cost of gas 939 471 337 Operating margin 814 640 599 Operation and maintenance 372 286 261 Depreciation and amortization 114 85 81 Taxes other than income taxes 32 23 24 Total operating expenses 518 394 366 Gain on sale of Caroline Street campus 21 Operating income 296 246 254 Donation to private foundation (8 ) Other income 3 1 1 EBIT $ 299 $ 247 $ 247 Metrics (1) Average end use customers (in thousands) 2,242 1,880 1,838 Operation and maintenance expenses per customer $ 166 $ 152 $ 142 EBIT per customer (2) $ 133 $ 131 $ 127 Throughput (in millions of Dth) Firm 234 194 190 Interruptible 120 105 109 Total 354 299 299 Heating degree days (3): Florida 698 239 Georgia 2,726 2,589 2,654 Maryland 5,004 860 New Jersey 5,017 873 Tennessee 3,115 3,010 3,168 Virginia 3,465 3,214 3,264 (1) 2004 metrics include only December for Florida City Gas, Elizabethtown Gas and Elkton Gas. (2) Excludes the gain on the sale of our Caroline Street campus in 2003. (3) We measure effects of weather on our businesses using degree days. The measure of degree days for a given day is the difference between average daily actual temperature and a baseline temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Heating degree days result when the average daily actual temperature is less than the 65 degree baseline. Generally, increased heating degree days result in greater demand for gas on our distribution systems. 2005 compared to 2004 EBIT increased $52 million or 21% reflecting an increase in operating margin of $174 million, partially offset by increased operating expenses of $124 million. The businesses acquired from NUI on November 30, 2004 contributed approximately $50 million of EBIT in 2005 compared to $7 million in 2004. This was due to the full year inclusion of the NUI results in 2005 compared to one month in 2004. 24 Table of Contents The $174 million or 27% increase in operating margin was primarily due to the addition of NUIs operations, which contributed $167 million. The remainder was primarily due to $8 million of higher operating margin at Atlanta Gas Light. The increase at Atlanta Gas Light resulted primarily from higher PRP revenues of $6 million and higher revenue of $3 million from additional carrying charges for gas stored for Marketers primarily due to higher gas prices. Atlanta Gas Light also had approximately $3 million of increased operating margin from net customer growth, which offset a $3 million decrease in operating revenues that resulted from the June 2005 Settlement Agreement with the Georgia Commission. Operating margin at Virginia Natural Gas and Chattanooga Gas remained relatively flat compared to last year. The $124 million or 31% increase in operating expenses primarily reflected the addition of NUIs operations which increased operating expenses by $125 million. 2004 compared to 2003 There was no change in distribution operations EBIT from 2003; however, the 2003 results included a pretax gain of $21 million on the sale of our Caroline Street campus, offset by an $8 million donation to AGL Resources Private Foundation, Inc. Exclusive of the gain and donation, EBIT in 2004 increased $13 million or 5% due to increased operating margin, partially offset by increased operating expenses. The $41 million or 7% increase in operating margin from 2003 included $17 million in combined increases at Atlanta Gas Light and Virginia Natural Gas. The increase in Atlanta Gas Lights operating margin was primarily due to higher PRP revenue as a result of continued PRP capital spending, customer growth, higher customer usage and additional carrying charges from gas stored for Marketers due to a higher average cost of gas. The increase in operating margin at Virginia Natural Gas was primarily due to customer growth. The acquisition of NUI added $24 million of operating margin primarily from NUIs December operations of Elizabethtown Gas and Florida City Gas. Operating expenses increased $28 million or 8% from 2003. This was due primarily to the addition of NUI operations for the month of December of $17 million. The remaining increase of $11 million was due to increases in the cost of outside services related to increased information technology services as a result of our ongoing implementation of a work management system; increased legal services due to increased regulatory activity; and increased accounting services related to our implementation of SOX 404. Employee benefit and compensation expenses also increased primarily as a result of higher health care insurance costs and increased long term compensation expenses. In addition, depreciation expenses increased primarily due to new depreciation rates implemented at Virginia Natural Gas and increased assets at each utility. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in bad debt expense, primarily due to a Tennessee Authority ruling that allowed for recovery of the gas portion of accounts written off as uncollectible at Chattanooga Gas and increased collection efforts at both Chattanooga Gas and Virginia Natural Gas. Retail Energy Operations Our retail energy operations segment consists of SouthStar, a joint venture owned 70% by our subsidiary, Georgia Natural Gas Company, and 30% by Piedmont. SouthStar markets natural gas and related services to retail customers on an unregulated basis, principally in Georgia. The SouthStar executive committee, which acts as the governing board, comprises six members, with three representatives from us and three from Piedmont. Under the joint venture agreement, all significant management decisions require the unanimous approval of the SouthStar executive committee; accordingly, our 70% financial interest is considered to be noncontrolling. Although our ownership interest in the SouthStar partnership is 70%, SouthStars earnings are allocated 75% to us and 25% to Piedmont, under an amended and restated joint venture agreement executed in March 2004. Beginning January 1, 2004, we consolidated the accounts of SouthStar and eliminated all intercompany balances in the consolidation. We recorded the portion of SouthStars earnings that are attributable to our joint venture partner, Piedmont, as a minority interest in our statements of consolidated income, and we recorded Piedmonts portion of SouthStars capital as a minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Competition SouthStar competes with other energy marketers, including Marketers in Georgia, to provide natural gas and related services to customers in Georgia and the Southeast. Based on its market share, SouthStar is the largest Marketer of natural gas in Georgia, with average customers in 2003 through 2005 in excess of 530,000. In addition, similar to distribution operations, SouthStar faces competition based on customer preferences for natural gas compared to other energy products and the comparative prices of those products. SouthStars principal competition relates to electric utilities and the potential displacement or replacement of natural gas appliances with electric appliances. This competition with other energy products has been exacerbated by price volatility in the wholesale natural gas commodity market which has resulted in significant increases in the cost of natural gas billed to SouthStars customers. 25 Table of Contents Operating Margin SouthStar generates its operating margin primarily in two ways. The first is through the sale of natural gas to retail customers in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors, primarily in Georgia. SouthStar captures a spread between wholesale and retail natural gas prices and also realizes a portion of its operating margin through the collection of a monthly service fee and customer late payment fees. SouthStars operating margins are impacted by weather seasonality as well as by customer growth, and SouthStars related market share in Georgia, which traditionally ranges from 35% to 38%. SouthStar employs a strategy to attract and retain a higher quality customer base through the application of stringent credit requirements. This strategy results not only in higher operating margin contributions, as customers tend to utilize higher volumes of natural gas, but also higher EBIT through a reduction in bad debt expenses. The second way in which SouthStar generates margin is through the optimization of storage and transportation assets. Through its hedging transactions and derivative instruments aimed at managing exposures arising from changing commodity prices, SouthStar utilizes natural gas storage transactions to profit from natural gas pricing differences that occur over time. SouthStar does not hold speculative derivative instruments. SouthStar is actively seeking to improve its margin generating capabilities by evaluating a number of growth opportunities, including incremental customer growth in Georgia and expansion of its retail model to other markets, through either organic growth or acquisition of an existing customer portfolio. Impact of High Gas Prices SouthStars operating margin and EBIT from the sales of natural gas to retail customers could be affected by conservation and bad debt trends as a result of higher natural gas prices in the 2005 2006 winter heating season. SouthStars bad debt expense as a percentage of operating revenues of approximately 1% for 2005 remained consistent with 2004. We believe SouthStars higher quality customer base and the unregulated pricing structure in Georgia mitigates our exposure to higher bad debt expenses. Results of Operations The following table presents results of operations for retail energy operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and pro forma results as if SouthStars accounts were consolidated with our subsidiaries accounts for the year ended December 31, 2003. The unaudited pro forma results are presented for comparative purposes as a result of our consolidation of SouthStar in 2004. This pro forma basis is a non GAAP presentation; however, we believe it is useful to readers of our financial statements since it presents the revenues and expenses for 2003 on the same basis as 2005 and 2004. In 2003, we recognized our portion of SouthStars earnings of $46 million as equity earnings. In millions 2005 2004 Pro forma2003 Operating revenues $ 996 $ 827 $ 743 Cost of gas 850 695 619 Operating margin 146 132 124 Operation and maintenance 58 60 60 Depreciation and amortization 2 2 1 Taxes other than income 1 Total operating expenses 61 62 61 Operating income 85 70 63 Minority interest (22 ) (18 ) (17 ) EBIT $ 63 $ 52 $ 46 Metrics Average customers (in thousands) 531 533 558 Market share in Georgia 35 % 36 % 38 % Natural gas volumes (billion cubic feet) 44 45 49 2005 compared to 2004 The $11 million or 21% increase in EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2005 was driven by a $14 million increase in operating margin and a $1 million decrease in total operating expenses, offset by a $4 million increase in minority interest due to higher earnings. The $14 million or 11% increase in operating margin was primarily the result of higher commodity margins and positive margin captured with SouthStars storage assets, offset by lower use per customer and lower late payment fees relative to last year. There was a slight decrease in operating expenses in 2005 compared to 2004. The decrease was due to lower bad debt expense resulting from ongoing collection process improvements. Minority interest increased $4 million or 22% as a direct result of increased operating income in 2005 compared to 2004. 26 Table of Contents 2004 compared to 2003 The increase in EBIT of $6 million or 13% for the year ended December 31, 2004 was primarily the result of higher commodity margins and decreased bad debt expense during the year. Operating margin for the year increased $8 million or 6%, primarily as a result of a $9 million increase due primarily to a lower commodity cost structure resulting from continued refinement of SouthStars hedging strategies and a $3 million increase due to a full year of higher customer service charges from third party providers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2 million related to a one time sale of stored gas in 2003 and a $2 million decrease in late payment fees due to an improved customer base. Operating expenses increased by $1 million or 2% primarily due to a $5 million increase in costs related to SOX 404 implementation and corporate overhead allocations, partially offset by lower bad debt expense resulting from collection process improvements and increased quality of customer base. There was also a $1 million increase in minority interest as a result of higher SouthStar earnings in 2004 compared to 2003. Wholesale Services Wholesale services consists of Sequent, our subsidiary involved in asset management, transportation, storage, producer and peaking services and wholesale marketing. Our asset management business focuses on capturing economic value from idle or underutilized natural gas assets, which are typically amassed by companies via investments in or contractual rights to natural gas transportation and storage assets. Margin is typically created in this business by participating in transactions that balance the needs of varying markets and time horizons. Sequent provides its customers in the eastern and mid continental United States with natural gas from the major producing regions and market hubs in the country. Sequent also purchases transportation and storage capacity to meet its delivery requirements and customer obligations in the marketplace. Sequents customers benefit from its logistics expertise and ability to deliver natural gas at prices that are advantageous relative to other alternatives available to its end use customers. Asset Management Transactions Our asset management customers include our own utilities, nonaffiliated utilities, municipal utilities and large industrial customers. These customers must independently contract for transportation and storage services to meet their demands, and they typically contract for these services on a 365 day basis even though they may only need a portion of these services to meet their peak demands. Sequent enters into agreements with these customers, either through contract assignment or agency arrangement, whereby it uses their rights to transportation and storage services during periods when they do not need them. Sequent captures margin by optimizing the purchase, transportation, storage and sale of natural gas, and Sequent typically either shares profits with customers or pays them a fee for using their assets. In April 2005, Sequent commenced asset management responsibilities for Elizabethtown Gas, Florida City Gas and Elkton Gas. In October 2005, the agreement between Sequent and Virginia Natural Gas was renewed for an additional three years. The agreement was scheduled to expire in October 2005. In January 2006, the Georgia Commission extended the asset management agreement between Sequent and Atlanta Gas Light for two additional years. The agreement was scheduled to expire in March 2006. Under the terms of the extended agreement, Sequent will increase its aggregate net sharing percentage paid to Atlanta Gas Light from 50% to 60% on the majority of transactions Sequent will initiate going forward in its role as asset manager. The following table provides additional information on Sequents asset management agreements with its affiliated utilities. 27 Table of Contents Duration of Expiration Type of fee % Shared or Profit sharing / fees payments Dollars in millions contract (in years) date structure annual fee 2005 2004 2003 Elkton Gas 2 Mar 2007 Fixed fee (A) $ $ $ Chattanooga Gas 3 Mar 2007 Profit sharing 50% 2 1 Atlanta Gas Light 2 Mar 2008 Profit sharing 60% 4 4 3 Elizabethtown Gas 3 Mar 2008 Fixed fee $4 Florida City Gas 3 Mar 2008 Profit sharing 50% Virginia Natural Gas 3 Mar 2009 Profit sharing (B) 5 3 5 (A) Annual fixed fee is less than $1 million (B) Sharing is based on a tiered sharing structure Transportation and Storage Transactions In our wholesale marketing and risk management business, Sequent also contracts for natural gas transportation and storage services. We participate in transactions to manage the natural gas commodity and transportation costs that result in the lowest cost to serve our various markets. We seek to optimize this process on a daily basis, as market conditions change, by evaluating all the natural gas supplies, transportation alternatives and markets to which we have access and identifying the least cost alternatives to serve our various markets. This enables us to capture geographic pricing differences across these various markets as delivered gas prices change. In a similar manner, we participate in natural gas storage transactions where we seek to identify pricing differences that occur over time with regard to future delivery periods at multiple locations. We capture margin by locking in the price differential between purchasing natural gas at the lowest future price and, in a related transaction, selling that gas at the highest future price, all within the constraints of our contracts. Through the use of transportation and storage services, we are able to capture margin through the arbitrage of geographical pricing differences that occur over time. Producer Services Our producer services business primarily focuses on aggregating natural gas supply from various small and medium sized producers located throughout the natural gas production areas of the United States, principally in the Gulf Coast region. We provide producers with certain logistical and risk management services that offer them attractive options to move their supply into the pipeline grid. Aggregating volumes of natural gas from these producers allows us to provide markets to producers who seek a reliable outlet for their natural gas production. Peaking Services Sequent generates operating margin through, among other things, the sale of peaking services, which includes receiving a fee from affiliated and nonaffiliated customers that guarantees those customers will receive gas under peak conditions. Sequent incurs costs to support our obligations under these agreements, which are reduced in whole or in part as the matching obligations expire. We will continue to seek new peaking transactions as well as work toward extending those that are set to expire. Competition Sequent competes for asset management business with other energy wholesalers, often through a competitive bidding process. There has been significant consolidation of energy wholesale operations, particularly among major gas producers. Financial institutions have also entered the marketplace. As a result, energy wholesalers have become increasingly willing to place bids for asset management transactions that are priced to capture market share. We expect this trend to continue in the near term, which could result in downward pressure on the volume of transactions and the related margins available in this portion of Sequents business. Seasonality Fixed cost commitments are generally incurred evenly over the year, while margins generated through the use of these assets are generally greatest in the winter heating season and occasionally in the summer due to peak usage by power generators in meeting air conditioning load. This increases the seasonality of our business, generally resulting in higher margins in the first and fourth quarters. Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities We account for derivative transactions in connection with our energy marketing activities on a fair value basis in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). We record derivative energy commodity contracts (including both physical transactions and financial instruments) at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses from changes in fair value reflected in our earnings in the period of change. Sequents energy trading contracts are recorded on an accrual basis as required under the EITF Issue No. 02 03, Issues Involved in Accounting for Contracts under EITF Issue No. 98 10, Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 02 03) rescission of EITF 98 10, unless they are derivatives that must be recorded at fair value under SFAS 133. 28 Table of Contents As shown in the table below, Sequent recorded net unrealized losses related to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments utilized in its energy marketing and risk management activities of $30 million during 2005, unrealized gains of $22 million during 2004 and $1 million during 2003. The tables below illustrate the change in the net fair value of the derivative instruments and energy trading contracts during 2005, 2004 and 2003 and provide details of the net fair value of contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Net fair value of contracts outstanding at beginning of period $ 17 ($5 ) $ 7 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (13 ) Net fair value of contracts outstanding at beginning of period, as adjusted 17 (5 ) (6 ) Contracts realized or otherwise settled during period (47 ) 11 2 Change in net fair value of contract gains (losses) 17 11 (1 ) Net fair value of new contracts entered into during period Net fair value of contracts outstanding at end of period (13 ) 17 (5 ) Less net fair value of contracts outstanding at beginning of period, as adjusted for cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 17 (5 ) (6 ) Unrealized (loss) gain related to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments $ (30 ) $ 22 $ 1 The sources of our net fair value at December 31, 2005 are as follows. The prices actively quoted category represents Sequents positions in natural gas, which are valued exclusively using New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (NYMEX) futures prices. Prices provided by other external sources are basis transactions that represent the cost to transport the commodity from a NYMEX delivery point to the contract delivery point. Our basis spreads are primarily based on quotes obtained either directly from brokers or through electronic trading platforms. In millions Prices actively quoted Prices provided by other external sources Mature through 2006 ($3 ) ($14 ) Mature 2007 2008 3 Mature 2009 2011 1 Mature after 2011 Total net fair value $ ($13 ) Mark to Market Versus Lower of Average Cost or Market Sequent purchases natural gas for storage when the current market price it pays plus the cost for transportation and storage is less than the market price it could receive in the future. Sequent attempts to mitigate substantially all the commodity price risk associated with its storage portfolio. Sequent uses derivative instruments to reduce the risk associated with future changes in the price of natural gas. Sequent sells NYMEX futures contracts or other over the counter derivatives in forward months to substantially lock in the profit margin it will ultimately realize when the stored gas is actually sold. Natural gas stored in inventory is accounted for differently than the derivatives Sequent uses to mitigate the commodity price risk associated with its storage portfolio. The natural gas that Sequent purchases and injects into storage is accounted for at the lower of average cost or market. The derivatives that Sequent uses to mitigate commodity price risk are accounted for at fair value and marked to market each period. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in Sequents reported results, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. Earnings Volatility and Price Sensitivity The market dynamics created by the two Gulf Coast hurricanes significantly impacted natural gas prices, primarily in the last five months of 2005. From June 30, 2005 to September 30, 2005, the forward NYMEX prices through March 2006 increased on average approximately $6.10, or 75%. From October 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the same prices decreased on average approximately $3.10, or 21%. These market dynamics created significant market opportunities for Sequent, as its storage and transportation activities created increased economic value compared to 2004. The accounting differences described above also impact the comparability of Sequents period over period results, since changes in forward NYMEX prices do not increase and decrease on a consistent basis from year to year. During most of 2005, Sequents reported results were negatively impacted by increases in forward NYMEX prices which resulted in the recognition of unrealized losses. During 2004, the reported results were not as significantly impacted by changes in forward NYMEX prices. As a result, a comparison of the 2005 and 2004 reported results yielded an unfavorable variance during the first nine months of 2005; however, the majority of these unrealized losses were recovered during the fourth quarter of 2005. 29 Table of Contents Storage Inventory Outlook The following table presents the NYMEX forward natural gas prices as of September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005 for the period January 2006 through March 2006, and reflects the prices at which Sequent could buy natural gas at the Henry Hub for delivery in the same time period. January 2006 futures expired on December 28, 2005; however they are included in the table below as they coincide with the January 2006 storage withdrawals. The Henry Hub, located in Louisiana, is the largest centralized point for natural gas spot and futures trading in the United States. NYMEX uses the Henry Hub as the point of delivery for its natural gas futures contracts. Many natural gas marketers also use the Henry Hub as their physical contract delivery point or their price benchmark for spot trades of natural gas. NYMEX forward natural gas prices as of Sep 2005 Dec 2005 $ Change % Change Jan 06 $ 14.77 $ 11.43 $ (3.34 ) (23 %) Feb 06 14.51 11.23 (3.28 ) (23 %) Mar 06 14.04 11.36 (2.68 ) (19 %) Avg. 14.44 11.34 (3.10 ) (21 %) The forward NYMEX prices decreased on average 21% in the fourth quarter of 2005 due to warmer than normal weather in late December 2005 and the diminishing effects of hurricanes Rita and Katrina in the fall of 2005. Sequents original economic profit margin was unaffected by these changes in the NYMEX forward natural gas prices due to the hedging instruments that it has in place. However, the decline in NYMEX prices during the fourth quarter of 2005 resulted in the recovery of previously reported unrealized losses associated with Sequents NYMEX contracts. Sequents expected withdrawals from physical salt dome and reservoir storage are presented in the table below along with its expected gross margin. Sequents expected gross margin is net of the impact of regulatory sharing and reflects the amounts that we would expect to realize in future periods based on the inventory withdrawal schedule and forward natural gas prices at December 31, 2005. Sequents storage inventory is fully hedged with futures as its NYMEX short positions are equal to the physical long positions, which results in an overall locked in margin, timing notwithstanding. Sequents physical salt dome and reservoir volumes are presented in increments of 10,000 million British thermal units (MMBtu). Withdrawal schedule (in MMBtu) Expected Physical salt dome Physical reservoir gross margin (in millions) (1) Jan 06 119 92 $ 5 Feb 06 149 212 6 Mar 06 16 252 5 Total 284 556 $ 16 (1) After regulatory sharing The weighted average cost of natural gas in inventory was $9.76 for physical salt dome storage and $8.98 for physical reservoir storage. As noted above, Sequents inventory level and pricing as of December 31, 2005 should result in a gross margin of approximately $16 million through March 2006 if all factors remain the same, but could change if Sequent adjusts its daily injection and withdrawal plans in response to changes in market conditions in future months. Credit Rating Sequent has certain trade and credit contracts that have explicit credit rating trigger events in case of a credit rating downgrade. These rating triggers typically give counterparties the right to suspend or terminate credit if our credit ratings are downgraded to non investment grade status. Under such circumstances, we would need to post collateral to continue transacting with some of our counterparties. Posting collateral would have a negative effect on our liquidity. If such collateral were not posted, our ability to continue transacting with these counterparties would be impaired. If at December 31, 2005 our credit ratings had been downgraded to non investment grade, the required amounts to satisfy potential collateral demands under such agreements between Sequent and its counterparties would have totaled $51 million. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents results of operations for wholesale services for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Operating revenues $ 95 $ 54 $ 41 Cost of sales 3 1 1 Operating margin 92 53 40 Operation and maintenance 39 27 20 Depreciation and amortization 2 1 Taxes other than income 1 1 Total operating expenses 42 29 20 Operating income 50 24 20 Other loss (1 ) EBIT $ 49 $ 24 $ 20 Metrics Physical sales volumes (billion cubic feet / day) 2.17 2.10 1.75 2005 compared to 2004 The increase in EBIT of $25 million or 104% in 2005 compared to 2004 was due to an increase in operating margin of $39 million partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of $13 million. Sequents operating margin increased by $39 million or 74% primarily due to the significant effects of the Gulf Coast hurricanes during the third quarter of 2005 and lingering market disruptions and price volatility throughout the fourth quarter. For the first nine months of the year, reported operating margin was similar to that of the prior year, with quarterly decreases being offset by quarterly increases. However, during the third quarter of 2005, while we created substantial economic value by serving our customers during the storms, our reported operating margin was negatively impacted by accounting losses associated with our storage hedges as a result of increases in forward natural gas prices of approximately $6 per MMBtu. During the fourth quarter, natural gas prices continued to be volatile in the aftermath of the hurricanes and we were able to further optimize our storage and transportation positions at levels in excess of the prior year. In addition, our previously reported hedge losses were partially recovered during the fourth quarter as forward natural gas prices decreased approximately $3 per MMBtu. Operating expenses increased by $13 million or 45% due to additional payroll associated with increased headcount and increased employee incentive compensation costs driven by Sequents operational and financial growth and depreciation expense in connection with Sequents new energy trading and risk management (ETRM) system, which was implemented during the fourth quarter of the prior year. 2004 compared to 2003 EBIT increased $4 million or 20% from 2003 to 2004 due to a $13 million increase in operating margin, partially offset by a $9 million increase in operating expenses. Operating margin increased by $13 million or 33% primarily due to increased volatility during the fourth quarter of 2004 which provided Sequent with seasonal trading, marketing, origination and asset management opportunities in excess of those experienced during the prior year. Also contributing to the increase were advantageous transportation values to the Northeast and new peaking and third party asset management transactions. Sequents sales volumes for 2004 averaged 2.10 billion cubic feet per day, a 20% increase from the prior year. This increase resulted primarily from the addition of new counterparties, increased presence in the midwestern and northeastern markets and continued growth in origination and asset management activities, as well as business generated due to the market volatility experienced during the fourth quarter. As a result of a decline in forward NYMEX prices, the 2004 results reflected the recognition of unrealized gains associated with the financial instruments used to economically hedge Sequents inventory held in storage. If the forward NYMEX price in effect at December 1, 2004 had also been in effect at December 31, 2004, based on Sequents storage positions at December 31, 2004, Sequents reported EBIT would have been $19 million. At December 31, 2003, an increase in forward NYMEX prices resulted in the recognition of modest unrealized losses associated with inventory hedges. Partially offsetting the improved fourth quarter results was lower volatility during the second quarter of 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, which compressed Sequents trading and marketing activities and the related margins within its transportation portfolio. In addition, Sequents weighted average cost of natural gas stored in inventory was $5.06 per MMBtu during the first quarter of 2004 compared to $2.20 per MMBtu during the same period in 2003. This significant difference in cost resulted in reduced operating margins period over period. 31 Table of Contents Operating expenses increased by $9 million or 45% due primarily to additional salary expense as a result of an increase in the number of employees; additional costs for outside services related to the development and implementation of Sequents ETRM system; the implementation of SOX 404; and increased corporate costs. In addition, 2004 operating expenses reflected depreciation associated with the recently implemented ETRM system. Energy Investments Pivotal Jefferson Island This wholly owned subsidiary operates a salt dome storage and hub facility in Louisiana, approximately eight miles from the Henry Hub. The storage facility is regulated by the Louisiana Public Service Commission and by the FERC which has limited regulatory authority over the storage and transportation services. The facility consists of two salt dome gas storage caverns with 10 million Dth (MMDth) of total capacity and about 7.2 million MMDth of working gas capacity. The facility has approximately 720,000 Dth/day withdrawal capacity and 360,000 Dth/day injection capacity. Pivotal Jefferson Island provides for storage and hub services through its direct connection to the Henry Hub via the Sabine Pipeline and its interconnection with seven other pipelines in the area. Our subsidiary Pivotal Energy Development (Pivotal Development) is responsible for day to day operation of the facility. Pivotal Jefferson Island is fully subscribed for the 2005 2006 winter period. In October 2005, Pivotal Jefferson Island also announced that it is soliciting customer interest, in the form of nonbinding bids for capacity, in a project that would expand Pivotal Jefferson Islands salt dome storage facility by 175% from its current capacity of 7.2 MMDth to as much as 19.8 MMDth. The expansion under consideration includes the development of a third and a fourth storage cavern at the facility, with each cavern having a working gas capacity of 6 MMDth. If there is sufficient customer interest in the project, construction would begin in early 2006. We would expect to complete the third cavern by 2009 and would expect the fourth cavern to be operational by 2011. The expansion project also includes expanding the number of pipeline interconnections in order to enhance Pivotal Jefferson Islands flexibility with regard to storage capacity and deliverability. In February 2006, our Board of Directors approved the project and authorized it to go forward. We expect to spend up to approximately $160 million on the expansion project. Pivotal Developments engineering estimates and the need to acquire equipment with appropriate specifications could result in increased costs and delays in the completion of the project. Pivotal Jefferson Islands competition is limited to other saltdome caverns in the Gulf Coast. We believe that Pivotal Jefferson Island is uniquely situated with its direct connection to the Henry Hub and its connection to seven other pipelines. For these reasons we believe that Pivotal Jefferson Island will be subscribed ahead of most of its competitors. Pivotal Propane In 2005, this wholly owned subsidiary completed the construction of a propane air facility in the Virginia Natural Gas service area that provides up to 28,800 Dth of propane air per day on a 10 day per year basis to serve Virginia Natural Gas peaking needs. AGL Networks This wholly owned subsidiary is a provider of telecommunications conduit and dark fiber. AGL Networks leases and sells its fiber to a variety of customers in the Atlanta, Georgia and Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan areas, with a small presence in other cities in the United States. Its customers include local, regional and national telecommunications companies, internet service providers, educational institutions and other commercial entities. AGL Networks typically provides underground conduit and dark fiber to its customers under leasing arrangements with terms that vary from 1 to 20 years. In addition, AGL Networks offers telecommunications construction services to companies. AGL Networks competitors are any entities that have or will lay conduit and fiber on the same route as AGL Networks in the respective metropolitan areas. Sale of certain NUI Assets In August 2005, we sold our 50% interest in Saltville Gas Storage Company, LLC (Saltville) and associated subsidiaries (Virginia Gas Pipeline and Virginia Gas Storage) to a subsidiary of Duke Energy Corporation, the other 50% partner in the Saltville joint venture. We acquired these non utility assets as part of our purchase of NUI in November 2004. We received $66 million in cash at closing, which included $4 million in working capital adjustments, and used the proceeds to repay short term debt and for other general corporate purposes. Results of Operations The following table presents results of operations for energy investments for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Operating revenues $ 56 $ 25 $ 6 Cost of sales 16 12 1 Operating margin 40 13 5 Operation and maintenance 17 5 9 Depreciation and amortization 5 2 1 Taxes other than income 1 1 Total operating expenses 23 8 10 Operating income 17 5 (5 ) Other income 2 2 2 EBIT $ 19 $ 7 $ (3 ) 32 Table of Contents 2005 compared to 2004 The $12 million or 171% increase in EBIT in 2005 was primarily the result of increased operating margin of $27 million, offset by $15 million in higher operating expenses. Of the $27 million or 208% increase in operating margin, $13 million resulted from Pivotal Jefferson Island; NUIs nonutility businesses, which contributed $8 million; and Pivotal Propane which contributed $3 million. AGL Networks contributed $4 million primarily from growth both in recurring revenues from fiber leasing activities of $1 million and in construction and new business activities of $3 million. Of the $15 million or 188% increase in operating expenses, $8 million resulted from NUIs nonutility businesses, $3 million resulted from Pivotal Jefferson Island and $1 million resulted from Pivotal Propane. AGL Networks operating expenses were relatively flat in 2005 as compared to 2004. 2004 compared to 2003 The increase in EBIT of $10 million was primarily the result of $3 million from Pivotal Jefferson Island and $3 million from AGL Networks. The remaining increase of $4 million was from the sale of Heritage Propane Partners, L.P. and the sale of a residential and retail development property in Savannah, Georgia in the second quarter of 2004. Operating margin for the year increased $8 million primarily as a result of the addition of Pivotal Jefferson Islands $4 million of operating margin and an operating margin increase at AGL Networks of $4 million due to increased revenue from a variety of customers. Operating expenses decreased by $2 million or 20% primarily due to decreased headcount at AGL Networks. Corporate Our corporate segment includes our nonoperating business units, including AGL Services Company (AGSC), AGL Capital Corporation (AGL Capital) and Pivotal Development. AGSC is a service company established in accordance with the PUHCA. AGL Capital provides for our ongoing financing needs through a commercial paper program, the issuance of various debt and hybrid securities, and other financing arrangements. Pivotal Development coordinates, among our related operating segments, the development, construction or acquisition of assets in the southeastern, mid Atlantic and northeastern regions in order to extend our natural gas capabilities and improve system reliability while enhancing service to our customers in those areas. The focus of Pivotal Developments commercial activities is to improve the economics of system reliability and natural gas deliverability in these targeted regions. We allocate substantially all of AGSCs and AGL Capitals operating expenses and interest costs to our operating segments in accordance with the PUHCA and state regulations. Our corporate segment also includes intercompany eliminations for transactions between our operating business segments. Our EBIT results include the impact of these allocations to the various operating segments. The acquisition of additional assets, such as NUI and Pivotal Jefferson Island, typically will enable us to allocate corporate costs across a larger number of businesses and, as a result, lower the relative allocations charged to those business units we owned prior to the acquisition of the new businesses. AGSC Restructuring As a result of the NUI acquisition, the associated centralization of certain administrative and operational functions and our ongoing desire to operate as efficiently as possible, we began, during the first quarter of 2005, a review of certain functions within our AGSC subsidiary. We expect this process to be part of an ongoing effort to optimize staffing levels and work processes across our entire company. The effects of this effort were the restructuring of certain key corporate functions and the elimination of filled and vacant positions within AGSC. We recorded a charge of $3 million in 2005, primarily as a result of severance related costs associated with the restructuring and elimination of the filled positions at AGSC. Based on efforts performed to date, as well as actual costs incurred to date and our original basis for the earnings guidance previously provided, we estimate the annual savings from these efforts to be in the range of $6 million to $10 million. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents results of operations for our corporate segment for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In millions 2005 2004 2003 Payroll $ 57 $ 48 $ 48 Benefits and incentives 34 32 32 Outside services 43 29 19 Taxes other than income 5 4 2 Other 52 46 44 Total operating expenses before allocations 191 159 145 Allocations to operating segments (185 ) (147 ) (139 ) Operating expenses 6 12 6 Loss on asset disposed Caroline Street campus (5 ) Operating loss (6 ) (12 ) (11 ) Other losses (5 ) (4 ) (1 ) EBIT $ (11 ) $ (16 ) $ (12 ) The corporate segment is a nonoperating segment. As such, changes in EBIT amounts for the indicated periods reflect the relative changes in various general and administrative expenses, such as payroll, benefits and incentives and outside services. 2005 compared to 2004 The $5 million or 31% increase in EBIT for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to decreased operating expenses of $6 million. These decreased costs were primarily due to merger and acquisition related costs incurred in 2004 but not in 2005. With respect to total operating expenses before allocations, payroll expenses in 2005 increased due to headcount in the corporate segment resulting from the acquisition of NUI in November of 2004 and the realignment and transfer of certain corporate functions to AGSC. Outside services expenses increased primarily due to higher costs associated with process improvement projects in the information technology, finance and human resources areas. Benefits and incentives increased primarily as a result of higher payroll related expenses. In addition, severance expenses increased as a result of the AGSC restructuring and process improvement initiatives. 2004 compared to 2003 The decrease in EBIT of $4 million or 33% for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 primarily was due to an increase in operating expenses of $6 million. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to increased outside services costs associated with software maintenance; licensing and implementation of our work management system project; higher costs due to our SOX 404 compliance efforts; merger and acquisition related expenses; and expenses related to Pivotal Developments activities in 2004. The increase in operating expenses was offset by a loss of $5 million on the sale of our Caroline Street campus in 2003. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources To meet our capital and liquidity requirements we rely on operating cash flow; short term borrowings under our commercial paper program, which is backed by our supporting credit agreement (Credit Facility); borrowings under Sequents and SouthStars lines of credit; and borrowings or stock issuances in the long term capital markets. Our issuance of various securities, including long term and short term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by state and federal regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and, through February 8, 2006, the SEC. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our consolidated assets, earnings and cash flow is derived from the operation of our regulated utility subsidiaries, whose legal authority to pay dividends or make other distributions to us is subject to regulation. The availability of borrowings under our Credit Facility is limited and subject to a total debt to capital ratio financial covenant specified within the Credit Facility, which we currently meet. We believe these sources will be sufficient for our working capital needs, debt service obligations and scheduled capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. The relatively stable operating cash flows of our distribution operations businesses currently contribute most of our cash flow from operations, and we anticipate this to continue in the future. We will continue to evaluate our need to increase our available liquidity based on our view of working capital requirements, including the impact of changes in natural gas prices, liquidity requirements established by the rating agencies and other factors. Additionally, our liquidity and capital resource requirements may change in the future due to a number of other factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include the seasonal nature of the natural gas business and our resulting short term borrowing requirements, which typically peak during colder months increased gas supplies required to meet our customers needs during cold weather changes in wholesale prices and customer demand for our products and services regulatory changes and changes in ratemaking policies of regulatory commissions contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments interest rate changes pension and postretirement funding requirements changes in income tax laws margin requirements resulting from significant increases or decreases in our commodity prices operational risks the impact of natural disasters, including weather 35 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have incurred various contractual obligations and financial commitments in the normal course of our operating and financing activities. Contractual obligations include future cash payments required under existing contractual arrangements, such as debt and lease agreements. These obligations may result from both general financing activities and from commercial arrangements that are directly supported by related revenue producing activities. We calculate any required pension contributions using the projected unit credit cost method. Under this method, we were not required to make any pension contribution in 2005, but we voluntarily made a $5 million contribution in August 2005. The following table illustrates our expected future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005. Payments due before December 31, 2007 2009 2011 & & & In millions Total 2006 2008 2010 thereafter Interest charges on outstanding debt (1) $ 1,870 $ 103 $ 201 $ 200 $ 1,366 Pipeline charges, storage capacity and gas supply (2) (3) 1,766 285 515 411 555 Long term debt (4) 1,615 2 2 1,611 Short term debt 522 522 PRP costs (5) 265 30 72 95 68 Operating leases (6) 160 27 44 33 56 Commodity and transportation charges 129 30 19 14 66 Environmental remediation costs (5) 97 13 27 53 4 Total $ 6,424 $ 1,010 $ 880 $ 808 $ 3,726 (1) Floating rate debt is based on the interest rate as of December 31, 2005 and the maturity of the underlying debt instrument. (2) Charges recoverable through a PGA mechanism or alternatively billed to Marketers. Also includes demand charges associated with Sequent. (3) A subsidiary of NUI entered into two 20 year agreements for the firm transportation and storage of natural gas during 2003 with annual aggregate demand charges of approximately $5 million. As a result of our acquisition of NUI and in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, we valued the contracts at fair value. The $38 million allocated to accrued pipeline demand charges in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2005 represents our estimate of the fair value of the acquired contracts. The liability will be amortized over the remaining lives of the contracts. (4) Includes $232 million of notes payable to trusts redeemable in 2006 and 2007. (5) Includes charges recoverable through rate rider mechanisms. (6) We have certain operating leases with provisions for step rent or escalation payments and certain lease concessions. We account for these leases by recognizing the future minimum lease payments on a straight line basis over the respective minimum lease terms, in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases. However, this accounting treatment does not affect the future annual operating lease cash obligations as shown herein. SouthStar has natural gas purchase commitments related to the supply of minimum natural gas volumes to its customers. These commitments are priced on an index plus premium basis. At December 31, 2005, SouthStar had obligations under these arrangements for 8 Bcf for the year ending December 31, 2006. This obligation is not included in the above table. SouthStar also had capacity commitments related to the purchase of transportation rights on interstate pipelines. We also have incurred various financial commitments in the normal course of business. Contingent financial commitments represent obligations that become payable only if certain predefined events occur, such as financial guarantees, and include the nature of the guarantee and the maximum potential amount of future payments that could be required of us as the guarantor. The following table illustrates our expected contingent financial commitments as of December 31, 2005. Commitments due before Dec. 31, In millions Total 2006 2007 & thereafter Standby letters of credit, performance / surety bonds $ 21 $ 21 $ 36 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Operating Activities We prepare our statement of cash flows using the indirect method. Under this method, we reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities by adjusting net income for those items that impact net income but do not result in actual cash receipts or payments during the period. These reconciling items include depreciation, undistributed earnings from equity investments, changes in deferred income taxes, gains or losses on the sale of assets and changes in the consolidated balance sheet for working capital from the beginning to the end of the period. Year over year changes in our operating cash flows are attributable primarily to working capital changes within our distribution operations, wholesale services and retail energy operations segments resulting from the impact of weather, the price of natural gas, the timing of customer collections, payments for natural gas purchases and deferred gas cost recoveries. We generate a large portion of our annual net income and subsequent increases in our accounts receivable in the first and fourth quarters of each year due to significant volumes of natural gas delivered by distribution operations and SouthStar to our customers during the peak heating season. In addition, our natural gas inventories, which usually peak on November 1, are largely drawn down in the heating season and provide a source of cash as this asset is used to satisfy winter sales demand. During this period, our accounts payable increases to reflect payments due to providers of the natural gas commodity and pipeline capacity. The value of the natural gas commodity can vary significantly from one period to the next as a result of the volatility in the price of natural gas. Our natural gas costs and deferred purchased natural gas costs due from or to our customers represent the difference between natural gas costs that we have paid to suppliers in the past and amounts that we have collected from customers. These natural gas costs can cause significant variations in cash flows from period to period. In 2005, our net cash flow provided from operating activities was $78 million, a decrease of $209 million or 73% from the same period last year. The decrease was primarily a result of increased working capital requirements including increased spending of $183 million for seasonal inventory injections in advance of the winter sales demand. We spent more on these injections in 2005 primarily because of higher natural gas prices due to the effects of the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region and of the full year impact associated with the purchase of natural gas for the utilities acquired in November 2004 from NUI, principally for Elizabethtown Gas. These higher natural gas prices resulted in a 45% increase in the average cost of our natural gas inventories. Our operating cash flow of $287 million for 2004 included SouthStars operating cash flow of approximately $79 million as a result of our consolidation of SouthStar effective January 1, 2004. In 2003 our operating cash flow only included amounts for cash distributions from SouthStar, consistent with the equity method of accounting. Excluding SouthStar, our cash flow from operations for 2004 was $208 million, an increase of $86 million from 2003. Year to year changes in our operating cash flow, excluding SouthStar, were primarily the result of increased earnings of $25 million and decreased spending for injection and purchase of natural gas inventories of $63 million. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Our investing activities consisted primarily of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) expenditures in 2005, 2004 and 2003 and our acquisitions of NUI for $116 million and Pivotal Jefferson Island for $90 million in 2004. In 2003, our investing activities included our cash payment of $20 million for the purchase of Dynegy Inc.s 20% interest in SouthStar. The following table provides additional information on our actual and estimated PP&E expenditures. In millions 2006 (1) 2005 2004 2003 Construction or preservation of distribution facilities $ 110 $ 135 $ 64 $ 60 SNG pipeline 32 PRP 30 48 95 45 Pivotal Propane plant 29 Pivotal Jefferson Island 36 8 2 Telecommunications 3 1 5 8 Other (2) 54 43 69 45 Total $ 233 $ 267 $ 264 $ 158 (1) Estimated (2) Includes corporate information technology systems and infrastructure expenditures. The increase of $3 million or 1% in PP&E expenditures for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the $32 million acquisition of a 250 mile pipeline in Georgia from SNG and increased expenditures of $71 million for the construction of distribution facilities, including $27 million at Elizabethtown Gas and Florida City Gas, both of which were acquired in November 2004. Also contributing to the increase was $6 million of additional expenditures at Pivotal Jefferson Island which completed a capital project to improve its compression capabilities. These increases were offset by reduced PRP expenditures of $47 million due to the Settlement Agreement between Atlanta Gas Light and the Georgia Commission that extended the program to 2013, reduced expenditures of $29 million at the Pivotal Propane plant in Virginia as most of its construction expenditures were incurred last year and reduced expenditures of $7 million at Sequent as its ETRM system was implemented in 2004. 37 Table of Contents Approximately 18% of our PP&E expenditures in 2005 included costs for the PRP, which are approved by the Georgia Commission. In the near term, the primary financial impact to us from the PRP is reduced cash flow from operating and investing activities, as the timing related to cost recovery through Atlanta Gas Lights base rates which include an allowed rate of return on its PRP capital expenditures does not match the timing related to costs incurred. We expect our future PRP expenditures will primarily include larger diameter pipe than in prior years, the majority of which is located in more densely populated areas. The following table provides more information on our expected PRP expenditures. Year Miles of Pipe to be Replaced Expenditures (in millions) 2006 95 $ 30 2007 107 35 2008 150 37 2009 154 45 2010 2013 333 118 Totals 839 $ 265 The increase of $106 million or 67% in PP&E expenditures for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to increased PRP expenditures of $50 million and our construction of the Virginia propane plant by Pivotal Propane for $29 million. Also contributing to the increase were $9 million of expenditures for the construction of the Macon peaking pipeline, $7 million for the ETRM system at Sequent, $2 million at Pivotal Jefferson Island and $3 million at SouthStar. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Our financing activities are primarily composed of borrowings and payments of short term debt, payments of medium term notes, borrowings of senior notes, distributions to minority interests, cash dividends on our common stock and the issuance of common stock. Our capitalization and financing strategy is intended to ensure that we are properly capitalized with the appropriate mix of equity and debt securities. This strategy includes active management by us of the percentage of total debt relative to our total capitalization, as well as the term and interest rate profile of our debt securities. We also work to maintain or improve our credit ratings on our debt to effectively manage our existing financing costs and enhance our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms. Factors we consider important in assessing our credit ratings include our balance sheet leverage, capital spending, earnings, cash flow generation, available liquidity and overall business risks. We do not have any trigger events in our debt instruments that are tied to changes in our specified credit ratings or our stock price and have not entered into any transaction that would require us to issue equity based on credit ratings or other trigger events. As of February 2006, our senior unsecured debt ratings are BBB+ from Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P), Baa1 from Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and A from Fitch Ratings (Fitch). In July 2004 upon the announcement of our proposed acquisition of NUI, S&P placed our credit ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications, Moodys affirmed our ratings but changed its rating outlook to negative from stable, and Fitch placed our credit ratings on Rating Watch Negative. Since the closing of the acquisition on November 30, 2004, S&P removed us from CreditWatch and changed our outlook to negative; Fitch took us off Rating Watch Negative and affirmed our ratings with a stable outlook; and Moodys changed our outlook to stable. S&P has indicated that the negative outlook is the result of the execution risks in integrating the NUI acquisition. Our credit ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot ensure that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. If the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market and our borrowing costs would increase. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would decrease. Our debt instruments and other financial obligations include provisions that, if not complied with, could require early payment, additional collateral support or similar actions. Our most important default events include maintaining covenants with respect to maximum leverage ratio, insolvency events, nonpayment of scheduled principal or interest payments, and acceleration of other financial obligations and change of control provisions. Our Credit Facilitys financial covenant requires us to maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no greater than 70%; however, our goal is to maintain this ratio at levels between 50% and 60% of debt to total capitalization. We are currently in compliance with all existing debt provisions and covenants. For more information on our debt, see Note 9. 38 Table of Contents We believe that accomplishing these capitalization objectives and maintaining sufficient cash flow are necessary to maintain our investment grade credit ratings and to allow us access to capital at reasonable costs. The components of our capital structure, as of the dates indicated, are summarized in the following tables. Dollars in millions Dec. 31, 2005 Short term debt $ 522 14 % Long term debt (1) 1,615 45 Total debt 2,137 59 Common shareholders equity 1,499 41 Total capitalization $ 3,636 100 % Dollars in millions Dec. 31, 2004 Short term debt $ 334 10 % Long term debt (1) 1,623 49 Total debt 1,957 59 Common shareholders equity 1,385 41 Total capitalization $ 3,342 100 % (1) Net of interest rate swaps. Short term debt Our short term debt is composed of borrowings under our commercial paper program, Sequents lines of credit, SouthStars line of credit and the current portion of our capital leases. Our short term debt financing generally increases between June and December because our payments for natural gas and pipeline capacity are generally made to suppliers prior to the collection of accounts receivable from our customers. We typically reduce short term debt balances in the spring because a significant portion of our current assets are converted into cash at the end of the winter heating season. Our Credit Facility was amended in August 2005. Under the terms of the amendment, the term of the Credit Facility was extended to August 31, 2010. The aggregate principal amount available under the amended Credit Facility was increased to $850 million, with an option to increase the aggregate cumulative principal amount available for borrowing to $1.1 billion on not more than three occasions during each calendar year. The increased capacity under our Credit Facility increases our ability to borrow under our commercial paper program. Our total cash and available liquidity under our Credit Facility as of the dates indicated are represented in the table below. In millions Dec. 31, 2005 Dec. 31, 2004 Unused availability under the Credit Facility $ 850 $ 750 Cash and cash equivalents 30 49 Total cash and available liquidity under the Credit Facility $ 880 $ 799 As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. However, the availability of borrowings and unused availability under our Credit Facility is limited and subject to conditions specified within the Credit Facility, which we currently meet. These conditions include maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no greater than 70% the continued accuracy of representations and warranties contained in the agreement In June 2005, Sequents existing $25 million unsecured line of credit was extended to July 2006. In September 2005, Sequent entered into an agreement for an additional $20 million unsecured line of credit scheduled to expire in September 2006. These unsecured lines of credit, which total $45 million, are used solely for the posting of margin deposits for NYMEX transactions, and are unconditionally guaranteed by us. At December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding amounts under these lines of credit, which is an $18 million decrease from the same time in 2004. In September 2005, Pivotal Utility Holdings, Inc entered into an agreement for a $20 million unsecured line of credit to be used solely for the posting of margin deposits for Elizabethtown Gas natural gas hedging program. The line expires in September 2006 and is unconditionally guaranteed by us. There were no amounts outstanding under this line of credit at December 31, 2005. SouthStars $75 million line of credit provides the additional working capital needed to meet seasonal demands and is not guaranteed by us. This line of credit is secured by various percentages of its accounts receivable, unbilled revenue and inventory. The line of credit expires in April 2007 and bears interest at the prime rate and or LIBOR plus a margin based on certain financial measures. At December 31, 2005, the line of credit had an outstanding balance of $36 million. There were no amounts outstanding under this facility at the same time in 2004. In 2004, we repaid $500 million outstanding under NUIs credit facility. Upon the repayment of the outstanding amounts, we terminated NUIs credit facility. 39 Table of Contents Long term Debt In 2004, AGL Capital issued $250 million of 6% Senior Notes Due October 2034 and $200 million of 4.95% Senior Notes Due January 2015. We fully and unconditionally guarantee the senior notes. The proceeds from the issuance were used to refinance a portion of our outstanding short term debt under our commercial paper program. During 2004, we also made $82 million in medium term note payments using proceeds from the borrowings under our commercial paper program. For more information on our long term debt, including the debt assumed in the NUI acquisition, see Note 9. Interest Rate Swaps To maintain an effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements for the purpose of hedging the interest rate risk associated with our fixed rate and variable rate debt obligation. At December 31, 2005, including the effects of $100 million of interest rate swaps, 66% of our total short term and long term debt was fixed. Refinancing of Gas Facility Revenue Bonds In April and May 2005, we refinanced $67 million of our gas facility revenue bonds. For more information, see Note 9. Minority Interest As a result of our consolidation of SouthStars accounts effective January 1, 2004, we recorded Piedmonts portion of SouthStars contributed capital as a minority interest in our consolidated balance sheets and included it as a component of our total capitalization. A cash distribution of $19 million in 2005 and $14 million in 2004 for SouthStars dividend distributions to Piedmont were recorded in our consolidated statement of cash flows as a financing activity. Common Stock In November 2004, we completed our public offering of 11.04 million shares of common stock, generating net proceeds of approximately $332 million. We used the proceeds to purchase the outstanding capital stock of NUI and to repay short term debt incurred to fund our purchase of Jefferson Island. Dividends on Common Stock In 2005, we made $100 million in common stock dividend payments. This was an increase of $25 million or 33% from 2004. The increase was due to our 11 million share common stock offering in November 2004, which increased the number of shares outstanding, and the increases in the amount of our quarterly common stock dividends per share. In 2004, we made $75 million in common stock dividend payments. This was an increase of $5 million or 7% from 2003. The increase was due to our 6.4 million common stock offering in February 2003, which increased the number of shares outstanding, and the increases in the amount of our quarterly common stock dividends per share. In the last three fiscal years, we have made the following increases in dividends on our common stock. For information about restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, see Note 9. Date of change % increase Quarterly dividend Indicated annual dividend Nov 2005 19 % $ 0.37 $ 1.48 Feb 2005 7 0.31 1.24 Apr 2004 4 0.29 1.16 Apr 2003 4 0.28 1.12 Shelf Registration We currently have remaining capacity under an October 2004 shelf registration statement of approximately $957 million. We may seek additional financing through debt or equity offerings in the private or public markets at any time. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We based our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from our estimates. Each of the following critical accounting policies involves complex situations requiring a high degree of judgment either in the application and interpretation of existing literature or in the development of estimates that impact our financial statements. Pipeline Replacement Program (PRP) Atlanta Gas Light was ordered by the Georgia Commission (through a joint stipulation between Atlanta Gas Light and the Commission staff) to undertake a PRP that would replace all bare steel and cast iron pipe in its system in the state of Georgia within a 10 year period beginning October 1, 1998. Atlanta Gas Light initially identified, and provided notice to the Georgia Commission in accordance with this stipulation, 2,312 miles of bare steel and cast iron pipe to be replaced. Atlanta Gas Light had subsequently identified an additional 320 miles of pipe subject to replacement under this program. On June 10, 2005, the Georgia Commission approved a Settlement Agreement with Atlanta Gas Light that, among other things, extends Atlanta Gas Lights PRP by five years to require that all replacements be completed by December 2013. The timing of replacements was subsequently specified in an amendment to the PRP stipulation. This amendment, which was approved by the Georgia Commission on December 20, 2005, requires Atlanta Gas Light to replace all cast iron pipe and 70% of all bare steel pipe by December 2010. The remaining 30% of bare steel pipe is required to be replaced by December 2013. Approximately 152 miles of cast iron and 687 miles of bare steel pipe still require replacement. The amendment also requires an evaluation by Atlanta Gas Light and the Georgia Commission staff of 22 miles of 24 inch pipe in Atlanta by December 2010 to determine if such pipe requires replacement. If replacement of this pipe is required, the pipe must be replaced by December 2013. The additional cost to replace this pipe is projected to be approximately $37 million. If Atlanta Gas Light does not perform in accordance with the initial and amended PRP stipulation, it can be assessed certain nonperformance penalties. However, to date, Atlanta Gas Light is in full compliance. 40 Table of Contents The stipulation also provides for recovery of all prudent costs incurred in the performance of the program, which Atlanta Gas Light has recorded as a regulatory asset. The regulatory asset has two components: the costs incurred to date that have not yet been recovered through rate riders the future expected costs to be recovered through rate riders The determination of future expected costs involves judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the future expected costs are projected capital expenditure spending and remaining footage of infrastructure to be replaced for the remaining years of the program. Atlanta Gas Light recorded a long term liability of $235 million as of December 31, 2005 and $242 million as of December 31, 2004, which represented engineering estimates for remaining capital expenditure costs in the PRP. As of December 31, 2005, Atlanta Gas Light had recorded a current liability of $30 million, representing expected PRP expenditures for the next 12 months. We report these estimates on an undiscounted basis. If the recorded liability for PRP had been higher or lower by $10 million, Atlanta Gas Lights expected recovery would have changed by approximately $1 million. Environmental Remediation Liabilities Atlanta Gas Light historically reported estimates of future remediation costs based on probabilistic models of potential costs. We report these estimates on an undiscounted basis. As we continue to conduct the actual remediation and enter cleanup contracts, Atlanta Gas Light is increasingly able to provide conventional engineering estimates of the likely costs of many elements of its remediation program. These estimates contain various engineering uncertainties, and Atlanta Gas Light continuously attempts to refine and update these engineering estimates. Our latest available estimate as of December 31, 2005 for those elements of the remediation program with in place contracts or engineering cost estimates is $12 million for Atlanta Gas Lights sites in Georgia and Florida. This is a reduction of $24 million from the estimate as of December 31, 2004 of projected engineering and in place contracts, resulting from program expenditures during 2005. For elements of the remediation program where Atlanta Gas Light still cannot perform engineering cost estimates, considerable variability remains in available estimates. The estimated remaining cost of future actions at these sites is $15 million. Atlanta Gas Light estimates certain other costs it pays related to administering the remediation program and remediation of sites currently in the investigation phase. Through January 2007, Atlanta Gas Light estimates the administration costs to be $4 million. Beyond 2007, these costs are not estimable. Atlanta Gas Lights environmental remediation liability is included in its corresponding regulatory asset. As of December 31, 2005, the regulatory asset was $133 million, which is a combination of the accrued remediation liability and unrecovered cash expenditures. Atlanta Gas Lights estimate does not include other potential expenses, such as unasserted property damage, personal injury or natural resource damage claims, unbudgeted legal expenses, or other costs for which it may be held liable but with respect to which the amount cannot be reasonably forecast. Atlanta Gas Lights recovery of environmental remediation costs is subject to review by the Georgia Commission which may seek to disallow the recovery of some expenses. In New Jersey, Elizabethtown Gas is currently conducting remediation activities with oversight from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. Although the actual total cost of future environmental investigation and remediation efforts cannot be estimated with precision, the range of reasonably probable costs is $57 million to $104 million. As of December 31, 2005, no value within this range is better than any other value, so we recorded a liability of $57 million. 41 Table of Contents The NJBPU has authorized Elizabethtown Gas to recover prudently incurred remediation costs for the New Jersey properties through its remediation adjustment clause. As a result, Elizabethtown Gas has recorded a regulatory asset of approximately $63 million, inclusive of interest, as of December 31, 2005, reflecting the future recovery of both incurred costs and future remediation liabilities in the state of New Jersey. Elizabethtown Gas has also been successful in recovering a portion of remediation costs incurred in New Jersey from its insurance carriers and continues to pursue additional recovery. As of December 31, 2005, the variation between the amounts of the environmental remediation cost liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and the associated regulatory asset is due to expenditures for environmental investigation and remediation exceeding recoveries from ratepayers and insurance carriers. We also own several former NUI remediation sites located outside of New Jersey. One site, in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, is subject to an order by the North Carolina Department of Energy and Natural Resources. We do not have precise estimates for the cost of investigating and remediating this site, although preliminary estimates for these costs range from $10 million to $17 million. As of December 31, 2005, we have recorded a liability of $10 million related to this site. There is another site in North Carolina where investigation and remediation is probable, although no regulatory order exists and we do not believe costs associated with this site can be reasonably estimated. In addition, there are as many as six other sites with which NUI had some association, although no basis for liability has been asserted. We do not believe that costs to investigate and remediate these sites, if any, can be reasonably estimated at this time. With respect to these costs, we currently pursue or intend to pursue recovery from ratepayers, former owners and operators and insurance carriers. Although we have been successful in recovering a portion of these remediation costs from our insurance carriers, we are not able to express a belief as to the success of additional recovery efforts. We are working with the regulatory agencies to prudently manage our remediation costs so as to mitigate the impact of such costs on both ratepayers and shareholders. Derivatives and Hedging Activities SFAS 133, as updated by SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 149), established accounting and reporting standards which require that every derivative financial instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. However, if the derivative transaction qualifies for and is designated as a normal purchase and sale, it is exempted from the fair value accounting treatment of SFAS 133, as updated by SFAS 149, and is accounted for using traditional accrual accounting. SFAS 133 requires that changes in the derivatives fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. If the derivatives meet those criteria, SFAS 133 allows a derivatives gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement in the case of a fair value hedge, or to record the gains and losses in other comprehensive income (OCI) until maturity in the case of a cash flow hedge. Additionally, SFAS 133 requires that a company formally designate a derivative as a hedge as well as document and assess the effectiveness of derivatives associated with transactions that receive hedge accounting treatment. Two areas where SFAS 133 applies are interest rate swaps and gas commodity contracts at Sequent and SouthStar. Our derivative and hedging activities are described in further detail in Note 4. Interest Rate Swaps We designate our interest rate swaps as fair value hedges as defined by SFAS 133, which allows us to designate derivatives that hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability. We record the gain or loss on fair value hedges in earnings in the period of change, together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. The effect of this accounting is to reflect in earnings only that portion of the hedge that is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value. Commodity related Derivative Instruments We are exposed to risks associated with changes in the market price of natural gas. Elizabethtown Gas utilizes certain derivatives for nontrading purposes to hedge the impact of market fluctuations on assets, liabilities and other contractual commitments. Pursuant to SFAS 133, such derivative products are marked to market each reporting period. Pursuant to regulatory requirements, realized gains and losses related to such derivatives are reflected in purchased gas costs and included in billings to customers. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected as a regulatory asset (loss) or liability (gain), as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheet. Through Sequent and SouthStar, we use derivative instruments to reduce our exposure to the risk of changes in the price of natural gas. Sequent recognizes the change in value of derivative instruments as an unrealized gain or loss in revenues in the period when the market value of the instrument changes. Sequent recognizes cash inflows and outflows associated with the settlement of its risk management activities in operating cash flows, and reports these settlements as receivables and payables in the balance sheet separately from the risk management activities reported as energy marketing receivables and trade payables. 42 Table of Contents Under our risk management policy, we attempt to mitigate substantially all our commodity price risk associated with Sequents natural gas storage portfolio and lock in the economic margin at the time we enter into purchase transactions for our stored natural gas. We purchase natural gas for storage when the current market price we pay plus storage costs is less than the market price we could receive in the future. We lock in the economic margin by selling NYMEX futures contracts or other over the counter derivatives in the forward months corresponding with our withdrawal periods. We use contracts to sell natural gas at that future price to substantially lock in the profit margin we will ultimately realize when the stored natural gas is actually sold. These contracts meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS 133. The purchase, storage and sale of natural gas are accounted for differently from the derivatives we use to mitigate the commodity price risk associated with our storage portfolio. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in our reported net income, even though the economic margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. We do not currently use hedge accounting under SFAS 133 to account for this activity. Natural gas that we purchase and inject into storage is accounted for on an accrual basis, at the lower of average cost or market, classified as inventory in our consolidated balance sheets; it is no longer marked to market following our implementation of the accounting guidance in EITF 02 03. Under current accounting guidance, we would recognize a loss in any period when the market price for natural gas is lower than the carrying amount of our purchased natural gas inventory. Costs to store the natural gas are recognized in the period the costs are incurred. We recognize revenues and cost of natural gas sold in our statement of consolidated income in the period we sell gas and it is delivered out of the storage facility. The derivatives we use to mitigate commodity price risk and substantially lock in the margin upon the sale of stored natural gas are accounted for at fair value and marked to market each period, with changes in fair value recognized as unrealized gains or losses in the period of change. This difference in accounting, the accrual basis for our storage inventory versus mark to market accounting for the derivatives used to mitigate commodity price risk, can result in volatility in our reported net income. Over time, gains or losses on the sale of storage inventory will be offset by losses or gains on the derivatives, resulting in realization of the economic profit margin we expected when we entered into the transactions. This accounting difference causes Sequents earnings on its storage positions to be affected by natural gas price changes, even though the economic profits remain essentially unchanged. Sequent manages underground storage for our utilities and holds certain capacity rights on its own behalf. The underground storage is of two types: reservoir storage, where supplies are generally injected and withdrawn on a seasonal basis salt dome high deliverability storage, where supplies may be periodically injected and withdrawn on relatively short notice SouthStar also uses derivative instruments to manage exposures arising from changing commodity prices. SouthStars objective for holding these derivatives is to minimize volatility in wholesale commodity natural gas prices. A portion of SouthStars derivative transactions are designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. Derivative gains or losses arising from cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and are reclassified into earnings in the same period the underlying hedged item is reflected in the income statement. As of December 31, 2005, the ending balance in OCI for derivative transactions designated as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133 was $(0.8) million. Any hedge ineffectiveness, defined as when the gains or losses on the hedging instrument do not offset the losses or gains on the hedged item, is recorded into earnings in the period in which it occurs. SouthStar currently has minimal hedge ineffectiveness. SouthStars remaining derivative instruments are not designated as hedges under SFAS 133. Therefore, changes in their fair value are recorded in earnings in the period of change. Contingencies Our accounting policies for contingencies cover a variety of business activities, including contingencies for potentially uncollectible receivables, rate matters, and legal and environmental exposures. We accrue for these contingencies when our assessments indicate that it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset will not be recovered, and an amount can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. We base our estimates for these liabilities on currently available facts and our estimates of the ultimate outcome or resolution of the liability in the future. Actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates can be, and often are, revised either negatively or positively, depending on actual outcomes or changes in the facts or expectations surrounding each potential exposure. 43 Table of Contents Pension and other postretirement plans Our pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and are affected by numerous assumptions and estimates including the market value of plan assets, estimates of the expected return on plan assets, assumed discount rates and current demographic and actuarial mortality data. We annually review the estimates and assumptions underlying our pension and other postretirement plan costs and liabilities. The assumed discount rate and the expected return on plan assets are the assumptions that generally have the most significant impact on our pension costs and liabilities. The assumed discount rate, the assumed health care cost trend rate and assumed rates of retirement generally have the most significant impact on our postretirement plan costs and liabilities. The discount rate is utilized principally in calculating the actuarial present value of our pension and postretirement obligations and net pension and postretirement cost. When establishing our discount rate, we consider absolute high quality corporate bond rates based on Moodys Corporate AA long term bond rate of 5.41% and the Citigroup Pension Liability rate of 5.51% at December 31, 2005. We further use these market indices as a comparision to a single equivalent discount rate derived with the assistance of our actuarial advisors. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense recorded in future periods. The expected long term rate of return on assets is utilized in calculating the expected return on plan assets component of our annual pension and postretirement plan cost. We estimate the expected return on plan assets by evaluating expected bond returns, equity risk premiums, asset allocations, the effects of active plan management, the impact of periodic plan asset rebalancing and historical performance. We also consider the guidance from our investment advisors in making a final determination of our expected rate of return on assets. To the extent the actual rate of return on assets realized over the course of a year is greater than or less than the assumed rate, that years annual pension or postretirement plan cost is not affected. Rather, this gain or loss reduces or increases future pension or postretirement plan costs. Prior to 2006, we estimated the assumed health care cost trend rate used in determining our postretirement net expense based upon our actual health care cost experience, the effects of recently enacted legislation and general economic conditions. However, starting in 2006, our postretirement plans have been capped at 2.5% for increases in health care costs. Consequently, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed health care trend rate does not materially affect our periodic benefit cost for our postretirement plans. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase our accumulated projected benefit obligation by $6 million. A one point percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would decrease our accumulated projected benefit obligation by $5 million. Our assumed rate of retirement is estimated based upon our annual review of our participant census information as of the measurement date. At December 31, 2005, we had an increase in our minimum pension liability by approximately $8 million, resulting in an aftertax loss to OCI of $5 million. This adjustment reflected our funding contributions to the plan and updated valuations for the projected benefit obligation and plan assets. To the extent that our future expenses and contributions increase as a result of the additional minimum pension liability, we believe that such increases are recoverable in whole or in part under future rate proceedings or mechanisms. Equity market performance and corporate bond rates have a significant effect on our reported unfunded accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), as the primary factors that drive the value of our unfunded ABO are the assumed discount rate and the actual return on plan assets. Additionally, equity market performance has a significant effect on our market related value of plan assets (MRVPA), which is a calculated value and differs from the actual market value of plan assets. The MRVPA recognizes the differences between the actual market value and expected market value of our plan assets and is determined by our actuaries using a five year moving weighted average methodology. Gains and losses on plan assets are spread through the MRVPA based on the five year moving weighted average methodology, which affects the expected return on plan assets component of pension expense. 44 Table of Contents A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease the AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Plans ABO by approximately $39 million and decrease annual pension expense by approximately $4 million. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase the AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Plans ABO by approximately $44 million and increase annual pension expense by approximately $4 million. Additionally, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on assets would decrease or increase the AGL Resources Inc. Retirement Plans annual pension expense by approximately $3 million. Additionally, in 2004 we recorded a $36 million liability for the amount of NUIs projected benefit obligation in excess of the fair value of pension plan assets at the date of our acquisition of NUI. At December 31, 2005 our accrued liability for NUIs projected obligation is $31 million, reflecting $9 million in adjustments for terminations and settlement of liabilities affected by the NUI purchase transaction offset by net periodic benefit cost of $3 million in 2005. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease the NUI Corporation Retirement Plans ABO by approximately $14 million and decrease annual benefit cost by approximately $2 million. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase the NUI Corporation Retirement Plans ABO by approximately $17 million and increase annual pension expense by approximately $1 million. In addition, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the NUI Corporation Retirement Plans expected return on assets would decrease or increase annual pension expense by approximately $1 million. As of December 31, 2005, the market value of the pension assets was $371 million compared to a market value of $390 million as of December 31, 2004. The net decrease of $19 million resulted from contributions of $5 million in August 2005 contributions of $1 million in 2005 to our supplemental retirement plan an actual return on plan assets of $27 million less benefits paid of $52 million Our $5 million in contributions to the pension plan in 2005 reduced annual pension expense by approximately $0.4 million in 2005. The actual return on plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets will have an impact on our benefit obligation as of December 31, 2005 and our pension expense for 2006. We are unable to determine how this actual return on plan assets will affect future benefit obligation and pension expense, as actuarial assumptions and differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets are determined at the time we complete our actuarial evaluation as of December 31, 2005. Our actual returns may also be positively or negatively impacted as a result of future performance in the equity and bond markets. Accounting Developments For information regarding accounting developments, see Note 3. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the factors that could affect our future performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward looking statements. We cannot predict every event and circumstance that may adversely affect our business, but the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant factors that we have identified at this time. Risks Related to Our Business Risks related to the regulation of our businesses could affect the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability. Our businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In particular, at the federal level our distribution businesses have been regulated by the SEC under the PUHCA and, effective February 8, 2006 will be regulated by the FERC under the PUHCA 2005. At the state level, our distribution businesses are regulated by the Georgia Commission, the Tennessee Authority, the NJBPU, the Florida Commission, the Virginia Commission and the Maryland Commission. These authorities regulate many aspects of our distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, rates that we can charge customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs, carrying costs we charge Marketers for gas held in storage for their customer accounts and relationships with our affiliates. Our ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain our current rates of return depends on regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue receiving our currently authorized rates of return. Deregulation in the natural gas industry is the separation of the provision and pricing of local distribution gas services into discrete components. Deregulation typically focuses on the separation of the gas distribution business from the gas sales business and is intended to cause the opening of the formerly regulated sales business to alternative unregulated suppliers of gas sales services. 45 Table of Contents In 1997, the Georgia legislature enacted the Natural Gas Competition and Deregulation Act. To date, Georgia is the only state in the nation that has fully deregulated gas distribution operations, which ultimately resulted in Atlanta Gas Light exiting the retail natural gas sales business while retaining its gas distribution operations. Gas marketers then assumed the retail gas sales responsibility at deregulated prices. The deregulation process required Atlanta Gas Light to completely reorganize its operations and personnel at significant expense. It is possible that the legislature could reverse the deregulation process and require or permit Atlanta Gas Light to provide retail gas sales service once again or require SouthStar to change the nature of how it provides natural gas to certain customers. In addition, the Georgia Commission has statutory authority on an emergency basis to order Atlanta Gas Light to temporarily provide the same retail gas service that it provided prior to deregulation. If any of these events were to occur, we would incur costs to reverse the restructuring process or potentially lose the earnings opportunity embedded within the current marketing framework. Furthermore, the Georgia Commission has authority to change the terms under which we charge Marketers for certain supply related services, which could also affect our future earnings. We have a concentration of credit risk in Georgia, which could expose a significant portion of our accounts receivable to collection risks. We have a concentration of credit risk related to the provision of natural gas services to Georgia Marketers. At September 30, 1998 (prior to deregulation), Atlanta Gas Light had approximately 1.4 million end use customers in Georgia. In contrast, at December 31, 2005, Atlanta Gas Light had only 10 certificated and active Marketers in Georgia, four of which (based on customer count and including SouthStar) accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated operating margin for 2005. As a result, Atlanta Gas Light now depends on a concentrated number of customers for revenues. The failure of these Marketers to pay Atlanta Gas Light could adversely affect Atlanta Gas Lights business and results of operations and expose it to difficulties in collecting Atlanta Gas Lights accounts receivable. Additionally, SouthStar markets directly to end use customers and has periodically experienced credit losses as a result of cold weather, variable prices and customers inability to pay. The cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible former employees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have a defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of substantially all full time employees and qualified retirees. The cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets and changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries and an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next five years. Any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension funds. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize an increased pension expense or a charge to our statement of consolidated income to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans. We face increasing competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The natural gas business is highly competitive, and we are facing increasing competition from other companies that supply energy, including electric companies, oil and propane providers and, in some cases, energy marketing and trading companies. In particular, the success of our investment in SouthStar is affected by the competition SouthStar faces from other energy marketers providing retail natural gas services in the Southeast. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the price or availability of natural gas relative to other forms of energy and the ability of end users to convert to alternative fuels affect the demand for natural gas. In the case of commercial, industrial and agricultural customers, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas costs, could also cause these customers to bypass our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per unit costs or disconnect from our system. 46 Table of Contents Our wholesale services segment competes with larger, full service energy providers, which may limit our ability to grow our business. Our wholesale services segment competes with national and regional full service energy providers, energy merchants, and producers and pipelines for sales based on our ability to aggregate competitively priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. Some of our competitors are larger and better capitalized than we are and have more national and global exposure than we do. The consolidation of this industry and the pricing to gain market share may affect our margins. We expect this trend to continue in the near term, and the increasing competition for asset management deals could result in downward pressure on the volume of transactions and the related margins available in this portion of Sequents business. Our asset management arrangements between Sequent and our affiliated local distribution companies and between Sequent and its nonaffiliated customers may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on Sequents business. Sequent currently manages the storage and transportation assets of our affiliates Atlanta Gas Light, Elizabethtown Gas, Virginia Natural Gas, Florida City Gas and Chattanooga Gas and shares profits it earns from the management of those assets with those customers and their customers, except at Elizabethtown Gas and Elkton Gas where Sequent is assessed an annual fixed fee payment. In addition, Sequent has asset management agreements with certain nonaffiliated customers. Entry into and renewal of these agreements are subject to regulatory approval. Sequents results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. Our profitability may decline if the counterparties to Sequents asset management transactions fail to perform in accordance with Sequents agreements. Sequent focuses on capturing the value from idle or underutilized energy assets, typically by executing transactions that balance the needs of various markets and time horizons. Sequent is exposed to the risk that counterparties to our transactions will not perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we might be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements, honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices or return a significant portion of the consideration received for gas under a long term contract. In such events, we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to or received from counterparties. We have a concentration of credit risk at Sequent that could expose us to collection risks. We often extend credit to our counterparties. Despite performing credit analyses prior to extending credit and seeking to effectuate netting agreements, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral we have secured is inadequate, we could experience material financial losses. We have a concentration of credit risk at Sequent, which could expose a significant portion of our credit exposure to collection risks. Approximately 52% of Sequents credit exposure is concentrated in 20 counterparties. Although most of this concentration is with counterparties that are either load serving utilities or end use customers and that have supplied some level of credit support, default by any of these counterparties in their obligations to pay amounts due Sequent could result in credit losses that would negatively impact our wholesale services segment. We are exposed to market risk and may incur losses in wholesale services. The commodity, storage and transportation portfolios at Sequent consist of contracts to buy and sell natural gas commodities, including contracts that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. If the values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from our trading activities. Value at risk (VaR) is defined as the maximum potential loss in portfolio value over a specified time period that is not expected to be exceeded within a given degree of probability. Based on a 95% confidence interval and employing a 1 day and a 10 day holding period for all positions, Sequents portfolio of positions as of December 31, 2005 had a 1 day holding period VaR of $0.6 million and 10 day holding period VaR of $1.9 million. Our accounting results may not be indicative of the risks we are taking or the economic results we expect due to changes in accounting for wholesale services. Although Sequent enters into various contracts to hedge the value of our energy assets and operations, the timing of the recognition of profits or losses on the hedges does not always match up with the profits or losses on the item being hedged. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in Sequents reported results, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated. 47 Table of Contents Our business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and our costs to comply are significant, and any changes in existing environmental regulation could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Such environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Our current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. In addition, claims against us under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. Existing environmental regulations could also be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by us subject to environmental regulation, our environmental expenditures could increase in the future, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. Additionally, the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions could give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could incur additional material costs for the environmental condition of some of our assets, including former manufactured gas plants. We are generally responsible for all on site and certain off site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the natural gas assets that we have operated, acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are or were known or unknown. In addition, in connection with certain acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against certain environmental liabilities. Before natural gas was widely available in the Southeast, we manufactured gas from coal and other fuels. Those manufacturing operations were known as manufactured gas plants, or MGPs, which we ceased operating in the 1950s. We have identified 10 sites in Georgia and 3 in Florida where we, or our predecessors, own or owned all or part of a MGP site. We are required to investigate possible environmental contamination at those MGP sites and, if necessary, clean up any contamination. To date, cleanup has been completed at these sites, and as of December 31, 2005, the soil and sediment remediation program was complete for all Georgia sites, although groundwater cleanup continues. As of December 31, 2005, projected costs associated with the MGP sites were $31 million. For elements of the MGP program where we still cannot provide engineering cost estimates, considerable variability remains in available future cost estimates. In addition, we are associated with former sites in New Jersey, North Carolina and other states that we assumed with our acquisition of NUI in November 2004. Material cleanups of these sites have not been completed nor are precise estimates available for future cleanup costs. For the New Jersey sites, cleanup cost estimates range from $57 million to $104 million. Costs have been estimated for only 1 of the non New Jersey sites, for which current estimates range from $10 million to $17 million. Our growth may be restricted by the capital intensive nature of our business. We must construct additions to our natural gas distribution system each year to continue the expansion of our customer base. The cost of this construction may be affected by the cost of obtaining government approvals, development project delays or changes in project costs. Weather, general economic conditions and the cost of funds to finance our capital projects can materially alter the cost of a project. Our cash flows are not fully adequate to finance the cost of this construction. As a result, we must fund a portion of our cash needs through borrowings and the issuance of common stock. This may limit our ability to increase infrastructure to connect customers due to limits on the amount we can economically invest, which shifts costs to potential customers. This may make it uneconomical for these potential customers to connect to our distribution systems. 48 Table of Contents Changes in weather conditions may affect our earnings. Weather conditions and other natural phenomena can have a large impact on our earnings. Severe weather conditions can impact our suppliers and the pipelines that deliver gas to our distribution system. Extended mild weather, during either the winter period or summer period, can have a significant impact on demand for and the cost of natural gas. We have a WNA mechanism for Elizabethtown Gas, Chattanooga Gas and Virginia Natural Gas that partially offsets the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on residential and commercial customer billings and margin. The WNA is most effective in a reasonable temperature range relative to normal weather using historical averages. The protection afforded by the WNA depends on continued regulatory approval. The loss of this continued regulatory approval could make us more susceptible to weather related earnings fluctuations. Inflation and increased gas costs could adversely impact our customer base and customer collections and increase our level of indebtedness. Inflation has caused increases in certain operating expenses and has required us to replace assets at higher costs. We have a process in place to continually review the adequacy of our utility gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas rates. Historically, we have been able to budget and control operating expenses and investments within the amounts authorized to be collected in rates and intend to continue to do so. The ability to control expenses is an important factor that will influence future results. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas cause us to experience a significant increase in short term debt because we must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow our utility collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This situation also results in higher short term debt levels and increased bad debt expense. Should the price of purchased gas increase significantly in the upcoming heating season, we would expect increases in our short term debt, accounts receivable and bad debt expense during 2006. Finally, higher costs of natural gas in recent years have already caused many of our utility customers to conserve in the use of our gas services and could lead to even more customers utilizing such conservation methods or switching to other more efficient competing products. The higher costs have also allowed products utilizing energy sources other than natural gas for applications that have traditionally used natural gas to be in more competitive position, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. A decrease in the availability of adequate pipeline transportation capacity could reduce our revenues and profits. Our gas supply depends on the availability of adequate pipeline transportation and storage capacity. We purchase a substantial portion of our gas supply from interstate sources. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. A decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation and storage service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. Risks Related to Our Corporate and Financial Structure If we breach any of the material financial covenants under our various indentures, credit facilities or guarantees, our debt service obligations could be accelerated. Our existing debt and the debt of certain of our subsidiaries contain a number of significant financial covenants. If we or any of these subsidiaries breach any of the financial covenants under these agreements, our debt repayment obligations under them could be accelerated. In such event, we may not be able to refinance or repay all our indebtedness, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of cross default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. Our Credit Facility and the indenture under which Atlanta Gas Lights outstanding medium term notes were issued contain cross default provisions. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under some of our debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under other of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy a large portion of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations simultaneously. 49 Table of Contents We depend on our ability to successfully access the capital markets. Any inability to access the capital or financial markets may limit our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we may rely on for future growth. We rely on access to both short term money markets (in the form of commercial paper and lines of credit) and long term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital and operating requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. If we are not able to access financial markets at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be affected. Certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such market disruptions could result from adverse economic conditions adverse general capital market conditions poor performance and health of the utility industry in general bankruptcy or financial distress of unrelated energy companies or Marketers in Georgia significant decrease in the demand for natural gas adverse regulatory actions that affect our local gas distribution companies terrorist attacks on our facilities or our suppliers extreme weather conditions A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital. S&P, Moodys and Fitch currently assign our senior unsecured debt a rating of BBB+, Baa1 and A , respectively. Our commercial paper currently is rated A 2, P 2 and F 2 by S&P, Moodys and Fitch, respectively. If the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market and our borrowing costs would increase. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Additionally, if our credit rating by either S&P or Moodys falls to non investment grade status, we will be required to provide additional support for certain customers of our wholesale business. As of December 31, 2005, if our credit rating had fallen below investment grade, we would have been required to provide collateral of approximately $51 million to continue conducting our wholesale services business with certain counterparties. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. We use derivatives, including futures, forwards and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve managements judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could adversely affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to changes in interest expense. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of fixed rate and variable rate debt. In order to maintain our desired mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt, we use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed rate and variable rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in structuring such swap agreements to effectively manage our risks. If we are unable to do so, our earnings may be reduced. In addition, higher interest rates, all other things equal, reduce the earnings that we derive from transactions where we capture the difference between authorized returns and short term borrowings. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our businesses. Natural disasters may damage our assets. The threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. In addition, future acts of terrorism could be directed against companies operating in the United States, and companies in the energy industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to acts of terrorism. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events. As a result, the availability of insurance covering risks against which we and our competitors typically insure may be limited. In addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates and credit. Commodity price risk is defined as the potential loss that we may incur as a result of changes in the fair value of a particular instrument or commodity. Interest rate risk results from our portfolio of debt and equity instruments that we issue to provide financing and liquidity for our business. Credit risk results from the extension of credit throughout all aspects of our business but is particularly concentrated at Atlanta Gas Light in distribution operations and in wholesale services. Our Risk Management Committee (RMC) is responsible for establishing the overall risk management policies and monitoring compliance with, and adherence to, the terms within these policies, including approval and authorization levels and delegation of these levels. Our RMC consists of senior executives who monitor commodity price risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall results of our risk management activities. It is chaired by our chief risk officer, who is responsible for ensuring that appropriate reporting mechanisms exist for the RMC to perform its monitoring functions. Our risk management activities and related accounting treatments are described in further detail in Note 4. Commodity Price Risk Retail Energy Operations SouthStars use of derivatives is governed by a risk management policy, created and monitored by its risk management committee, which prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. A 95% confidence interval is used to evaluate VaR exposure. A 95% confidence interval means there is a 5% probability that the actual change in portfolio value will be greater than the calculated VaR value over the holding period. We calculate VaR based on the variance covariance technique. This technique requires several assumptions for the basis of the calculation, such as price volatility, confidence interval and holding period. Our VaR may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because, although VaR is a common metric in the energy industry, there is no established industry standard for calculating VaR or for the assumptions underlying such calculations. The following table provides more information on SouthStars 1 day and 10 day holding period VaR. In millions 1 day 10 day 2005 period end $ 0.3 $ 0.8 2004 period end 0.2 0.5 SouthStar generates operating margin from the active management of storage positions through a variety of hedging transactions and derivative instruments aimed at managing exposures arising from changing commodity prices. SouthStar uses these hedging instruments to lock in economic margins (as spreads between wholesale and retail commodity prices widen between periods) and thereby minimize its exposure to declining operating margins. 51 Table of Contents Wholesale Services This segment routinely utilizes various types of financial and other instruments to mitigate certain commodity price risks inherent in the natural gas industry. These instruments include a variety of exchange traded and over the counter energy contracts, such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options contracts and financial swap agreements. The following table includes the fair values and average values of our energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. We base the average values on monthly averages for the 12 months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Average values at December 31, In millions 2005 2004 Asset $ 83 $ 28 Liability 102 21 Value at December 31, In millions 2005 2004 Asset $ 97 $ 36 Liability 110 19 We employ a systematic approach to evaluating and managing the risks associated with our contracts related to wholesale marketing and risk management, including VaR. Similar to SouthStar, Sequent uses a 1 day and a 10 day holding period and a 95% confidence interval to evaluate its VaR exposure. Sequents open exposure is managed in accordance with established policies that limit market risk and require daily reporting of potential financial exposure to senior management, including the chief risk officer. Because Sequent generally manages physical gas assets and economically protects its positions by hedging in the futures markets, its open exposure is generally minimal, permitting Sequent to operate within relatively low VaR limits. Sequent employs daily risk testing, using both VaR and stress testing, to evaluate the risks of its open positions. Sequents management actively monitors open commodity positions and the resulting VaR. Sequent continues to maintain a relatively matched book, where its total buy volume is close to sell volume, with minimal open commodity risk. Based on a 95% confidence interval and employing a 1 day and a 10 day holding period for all positions, Sequents portfolio of positions for the 12 months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 had the following 1 day and 10 day holding period VaRs. In millions 1 day 10 day 2005 Period end $ 0.6 $ 1.9 12 month average 0.4 1.2 High 1.1 3.5 Low (1) 0.0 0.0 2004 Period end $ 0.1 $ 0.2 12 month average 0.1 0.3 High 0.4 1.3 Low (1) 0.0 0.0 2003 Period end $ 0.3 $ 1.0 12 month average 0.1 0.3 High 2.5 4.7 Low (1) 0.0 0.0 (1) $0.0 values represent amounts less than $0.1 million. During 2005 Sequent experienced increases in its high, 12 month average and period end 1 day and 10 day VaR amounts. These increases were directly associated with the market impacts and related price volatility created by the Gulf Coast hurricanes during the third quarter and the lingering effects through year end. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate fluctuations expose our variable rate debt to changes in interest expense and cash flows. Our policy is to manage interest expense using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. To facilitate the achievement of desired fixed rate to variable rate debt ratios, AGL Capital entered into interest rate swaps whereby it agreed to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable amounts calculated by reference to agreed on notional principal amounts. These swaps are designated to hedge the fair values of $100 million of the $300 million Senior Notes Due 2011. At the beginning of 2005, we had $75 million of outstanding interest rate swap agreements associated with our note payable at AGL Capital Trust II. On September 7, 2005, we terminated these interest rate swap agreements. We received a payment of $1 million related to this termination, which included accrued interest and the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements at the termination date. In September 2005, we also executed five treasury lock agreements totaling $125 million to hedge the interest rate risk associated with an anticipated 2006 financing. The agreements will result in a 4.11% interest rate on the 10 year United States Treasury bond against which we will be measured in issuing our own debt instruments and were designated as cash flow hedges against the future interest payments on the anticipated financing. 52 Table of Contents Credit Risk Distribution Operations Atlanta Gas Light has a concentration of credit risk because it bills only 10 Marketers in Georgia for its services. The credit risk exposure to Marketers varies with the time of the year, with exposure at its lowest in the nonpeak summer months and highest in the peak winter months. Marketers are responsible for the retail sale of natural gas to end use customers in Georgia. These retail functions include customer service, billing, collections, and the purchase and sale of the natural gas commodity. These Marketers, in turn, bill end use customers. The provisions of Atlanta Gas Lights tariff allow Atlanta Gas Light to obtain security support in an amount equal to a minimum of two times a Marketers highest months estimated bill from Atlanta Gas Light. For 2005, the 4 largest Marketers based on customer count, one of which was SouthStar, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated operating margin and 45% of distribution operations operating margin. Several factors are designed to mitigate our risks from the increased concentration of credit that has resulted from deregulation. In addition to the security support described above, Atlanta Gas Light bills intrastate delivery service to Marketers in advance rather than in arrears. We accept credit support in the form of cash deposits, letters of credit/surety bonds from acceptable issuers and corporate guarantees from investment grade entities. The RMC reviews on a monthly basis the adequacy of credit support coverage, credit rating profiles of credit support providers and payment status of each Marketer. We believe that adequate policies and procedures have been put in place to properly quantify, manage and report on Atlanta Gas Lights credit risk exposure to Marketers. Atlanta Gas Light also faces potential credit risk in connection with assignments to Marketers of interstate pipeline transportation and storage capacity. Although Atlanta Gas Light assigns this capacity to Marketers, in the event that a Marketer fails to pay the interstate pipelines for the capacity, the interstate pipelines would in all likelihood seek repayment from Atlanta Gas Light. The fact that some of the interstate pipelines require Marketers to maintain security for their obligations to the interstate pipelines arising out of the assigned capacity somewhat mitigates this risk. Retail Energy Operations SouthStar credit scores firm residential and small commercial customers using a national credit reporting agency and enrolls, without security, only those customers that meet or exceed SouthStars credit threshold. The average credit score of SouthStars Georgia customers has increased 9% since 2003. SouthStar investigates potential interruptible and large commercial customers through reference checks, review of publicly available financial statements and review of commercially available credit reports. Prior to entering into a physical transaction, SouthStar also assigns physical wholesale counterparties an internal credit rating and credit limit based on their Moodys, S&P and Fitch ratings, commercially available credit reports and audited financial statements. Wholesale Services Sequent has established credit policies to determine and monitor the creditworthiness of counterparties, as well as the quality of pledged collateral. Sequent also utilizes master netting agreements whenever possible to mitigate exposure to counterparty credit risk. When Sequent is engaged in more than one outstanding derivative transaction with the same counterparty and it also has a legally enforceable netting agreement with that counterparty, the net mark to market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with that counterparty and a reasonable measure of Sequents credit risk. Sequent also uses other netting agreements with certain counterparties with whom it conducts significant transactions. Master netting agreements enable Sequent to net certain assets and liabilities by counterparty. Sequent also nets across product lines and against cash collateral, provided the master netting and cash collateral agreements include such provisions. Additionally, Sequent may require counterparties to pledge additional collateral when deemed necessary. Sequent conducts credit evaluations and obtains appropriate internal approvals for its counterpartys line of credit before any transaction with the counterparty is executed. In most cases, the counterparty must have a minimum long term debt rating of Baa3 from Moodys and BBB from S&P. Generally, Sequent requires credit enhancements by way of guaranty, cash deposit or letter of credit for transaction counterparties that do not meet the minimum ratings threshold. Sequent, which provides services to Marketers and utility and industrial customers, also has a concentration of credit risk as measured by its 30 day receivable exposure plus forward exposure. As of December 31, 2005, Sequents top 20 counterparties represented approximately 52% of the total counterparty exposure of $554 million, derived by adding together the top 20 counterparties exposures and dividing by the total of Sequents counterparties exposures. As of December 31, 2005, Sequents counterparties, or the counterparties guarantors, had a weighted average S&P equivalent credit rating of A , which is consistent with the prior year. The S&P equivalent credit rating is determined by a process of converting the lower of the S&P or Moodys ratings to an internal rating ranging from 9 to 1, with 9 being equivalent to AAA/Aaa by S&P and Moodys and 1 being D or Default by S&P and Moodys. A counterparty that does not have an external rating is assigned an internal rating based on the strength of the financial ratios of that counterparty. 53 Table of Contents To arrive at the weighted average credit rating, each counterpartys assigned internal rating is multiplied by the counterpartys credit exposure and summed for all counterparties. That sum is divided by the aggregate total counterparties exposures, and this numeric value is then converted to an S&P equivalent. The following tables show Sequents commodity receivable and payable positions as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. As of: December 31, In millions 2005 2004 Gross receivables Receivables with netting agreements in place: Counterparty is investment grade $ 462 $378 Counterparty is non investment grade 66 36 Counterparty has no external rating 113 78 Receivables without netting agreements in place: Counterparty is investment grade 34 16 Counterparty is non investment grade 6 Counterparty has no external rating Amount recorded on balance sheet $ 675 $514 Gross payables Payables with netting agreements in place: Counterparty is investment grade $ 456 $ 291 Counterparty is non investment grade 56 45 Counterparty has no external rating 255 139 Payables without netting agreements in place: Counterparty is investment grade 4 40 Counterparty is non investment grade 6 Counterparty has no external rating 4 Amount recorded on balance sheet $ 775 $ 521 Sequent has certain trade and credit contracts that have explicit rating trigger events in case of a credit rating downgrade. These rating triggers typically give counterparties the right to suspend or terminate credit if our credit ratings are downgraded to non investment grade status. Under such circumstances, Sequent would need to post collateral to continue transacting business with some of its counterparties. Posting collateral would have a negative effect on our liquidity. If such collateral were not posted, Sequents ability to continue transacting business with these counterparties would be impaired. If at December 31, 2005 Sequents credit ratings had been downgraded to non investment grade status, the required amounts to satisfy potential collateral demands under such agreements between Sequent and its counterparties would have totaled $51 million. 54 Table of Contents 
 
