FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20051208165111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: December 8, 2005 (Date of earliest event reported) INTEL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-06217 94-1672743 -------- ------- ---------- (State of (Commission (IRS Employer incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549 --------------------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (408) 765-8080 -------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
Item 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Intel Corporation's announcement regarding an update to forward-looking statements relating to 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2005 as presented in a press release of December 8, 2005. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore and hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superceded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. INTEL CORPORATION (Registrant) Date: December 8, 2005 By: /s/ Andy D. Bryant ------------------- Andy D. Bryant Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer

Exhibit 99.1 Intel Fourth-Quarter Business Consistent With Expectations SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 8, 2005--Intel Corporation expects revenue for the fourth quarter to be between $10.4 billion and $10.6 billion, as compared to the previous range of $10.2 billion to $10.8 billion. The fourth-quarter gross margin percentage expectation has been narrowed to 63 percent, plus or minus a point, and is expected to be slightly above the midpoint of the new range. The previous expectation was 63 percent, plus or minus a couple of points. Capital spending is expected to be below the midpoint of the previous expectation of $5.9 billion, plus or minus $200 million. All other expectations are unchanged. This Business Update is a scheduled update to the company's Business Outlook for the quarter, which ends Dec. 31. Intel's fourth-quarter Business Outlook was originally published in the company's third-quarter 2005 earnings release, available at www.intc.com. The company will discuss this update during a public webcast at 2:30 p.m. PST today at www.intc.com, with a replay available until Jan. 17. Intel, the world's largest chip maker, is also a leading manufacturer of computer, networking and communications products. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom. This Business Update and the Oct. 18, 2005 Business Outlook are forward-looking statements and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. This Business Update does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after Dec. 7, 2005. Many factors could affect Intel's actual results, and changes from Intel's current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially. Intel presently considers the factors set forth below to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Intel's published expectations. A more detailed discussion of these factors, as well as other factors that could affect Intel's results, is contained in Intel's SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Oct. 1, 2005. -- Intel operates in intensely competitive industries. Revenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; the availability of sufficient inventory of Intel products and related components from other suppliers to meet demand; pricing pressures; and actions taken by Intel's competitors. Factors that could cause demand to be different from Intel's expectations include changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations; changes in the level of inventory at customers; and changes in business and economic conditions. -- The gross margin percentage could vary from expectations based on changes in revenue levels; product mix and pricing; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; excess or obsolete inventory; manufacturing yields; changes in unit costs; capacity utilization; impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets; and the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs, including start-up costs. -- Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products and the level of revenue and profits. -- The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income and assumes Intel continues to receive tax benefits for export sales. The tax rate may be affected by the closing of acquisitions or divestitures; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions, as well as the taxes associated with repatriation of cash under the American Jobs Creation Act; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets. -- Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on equity market levels and volatility; gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities; impairment charges related to marketable, non-marketable and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. -- Intel's results could be impacted by unexpected economic, social and political conditions in the countries in which Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including security risks, possible infrastructure disruptions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. -- Intel's results could also be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports. * Intel is a mark or registered trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.


