FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20060720113620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ____________________ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: July 19, 2006 (Date of earliest event reported) INTEL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 000-06217 94-1672743 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, 95054-1549 California (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (408) 765-8080 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item Regulation FD Disclosure. 7.01 Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release describing certain changes in executive management within Intel Corporation. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. INTEL CORPORATION (Registrant) By: /s/ Cary I. Klafter ----------------------- Cary I. Klafter Date: July 20, 2006 Corporate Secretary

Exhibit 99.1 CONTACT: Robert Manetta 408-765-7082 Robert.i.manetta@intel.com INTEL ANNOUNCES MANAGEMENT CHANGES SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 20, 2006 - Intel Corporation today announced that it is making a number of senior management changes focused on improving the company's structure and achieving faster and better decision making. The company also announced that two senior executives will be retiring. "As part of the thorough analysis of Intel begun in April, we have examined the focus and structure of our top management level, including our use of 'two-in- a-box' co-managers," said Intel President and CEO Paul Otellini. "The moves announced today will help us speed decision making and bring new resources to bear in critical areas, while allowing me to spend more time on key strategic issues." The management changes include: Intel's Sales and Marketing Group will be led by Executive Vice President Sean Maloney, 50, who previously co-managed the company's Mobility Group. Maloney will also become Intel's chief sales and marketing officer. Donald MacDonald, who was previously vice president and general manager of the Digital Home Group, will become vice president of Marketing and Brands, reporting to Maloney. Senior Vice President David Perlmutter, 53, will continue as general manager of the Mobility Group. Senior Vice President Anand Chandrasekher, 43, formerly co-general manager of the Sales and Marketing Group, will manage a newly created business unit focused on low power Intel Architecture products and the ultra- mobile PC market. He will report to Perlmutter. Eric Kim, 51, senior vice president, who previously co-managed the Sales and Marketing Group, will become general manager of the Digital Home Group. William Siu, a 26-year Intel veteran who served as vice president and general manager of the Channel Platforms Group, and Richard Wirt, who has 25 years of service and is vice president, senior fellow and co- general manager of the Software and Solutions Group, announced their retirements. Both of these executives will remain full time with Intel through the end of the year to best manage their organizations' transitions. With the impending retirement of Siu, the Channel Platforms Group will report to Maloney in the Sales and Marketing Group. A general manager for the Channel Platforms Group will be named at a later date. Renee James, vice president and co-general manager of the Software and Solutions Group, will continue to manage the group following Wirt's retirement at the end of the year. "I want to express my deep appreciation to Bill Siu and Richard Wirt for their numerous contributions and dedicated service to Intel over many years," continued Otellini. "We thank them very much and wish them all the best in their retirement." The management changes are effective immediately. Intel, the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom. Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


