FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20070516131211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                                                                
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 16, 2007
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On May 16, 2007, Intel's stockholders approved the amendment and extension of the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Plan") to: (1) extend the term of the Plan to June 30, 2010, (2) reserve an additional 119 million shares for a total authorization of 294 million shares of Intel common stock for issuance under the Plan, and (3) add a claw-back provision for executive officers.
The Plan provides for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units ("RSUs") to eligible full-time and part-time employees and non-employee directors. The Compensation Committee (the "Committee") determines which employees will participate in the Plan, as well as the terms of employee grants, and the Board determines the terms of grants to non-employee directors. The Committee has delegated authority to a committee consisting of the CEO to grant awards to non-executive employees within limits and a budget pre-approved by the Committee. An aggregate of 294 million shares have been reserved for issuance as awards over the term of the Plan, subject to adjustment only to reflect stock splits and similar events.
Stock options granted under the Plan may not have a term longer than seven years, except that up to 7 million shares may be used for long-term executive retention stock option grants having a term no longer than 10 years. No more than 168 million shares may be issued as restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards under the Plan. Within these 168 million shares of restricted stock or RSUs, up to an aggregate of 100,000 shares may be issued under the Plan as employee recognition stock awards having no minimum vesting period. The Plan limits awards to any employee participant in any single calendar year to no more than 3 million shares subject to stock options or stock appreciation rights and no more than 2 million shares subject to restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards. No more than 30,000 shares may be subject to awards granted to any non-employee director in a single calendar year. Awards under the Plan may be conditioned on continued employment, the passage of time or the satisfaction of performance vesting criteria, which criteria may be based on financial and business performance criteria. Vesting requirements are determined by the Committee, provided, however, that stock options and stock appreciation rights shall not first become exercisable in less than one year and restricted stock or restricted stock units shall not vest in less than pro rata installments over three years, unless vesting is based on the achievement of performance criteria, in which case such performance vesting criteria may not be based on a period of less than one year.
If the Committee should determine that an executive officer has engaged in an act of embezzlement, fraud, or breach of fiduciary duty that contributed to an obligation to restate Intel's financial statements, the new claw-back provision requires the officer to repay proceeds from the sale of equity awards within the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the SEC of the financial statements required to be restated.
The foregoing summary description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. For additional information regarding the Plan, refer to Proposal 3 (Approval of Amendment and Extension of the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan) on pages 43-50 of our 2007 Proxy Statement, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 27, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
On May 16, 2007, Intel's stockholders approved the 2007 Executive Officer Incentive Plan ("2007 EOIP"). The 2007 EOIP, in which the company's executive officers participate, is a cash-based, pay-for-performance incentive program.
Executive officers, as determined by the Committee, are eligible to participate in the 2007 EOIP. The 2007 EOIP includes a formula to calculate the maximum annual incentive payout for each executive officer. The 2007 EOIP incentive formula has three variables: (1) the executive officer's annual incentive baseline amount, which the Committee determines annually for each participant, (2) a plan multiplier for the year, which is the sum of three components, described below ("Plan Multiplier"), and (3) an individual performance adjustment, as determined each year by the Committee (the "Individual Performance Adjustment"). The Committee will determine each executive officer's Individual Performance Adjustment based on a subjective, discretionary criteria. Individual performance adjustments are expected to be between 90% and 110%, with most executive officers receiving 100%.
 
At the end of the year, Intel multiplies each executive officer's incentive baseline amount by the Plan Multiplier and the Individual Performance Adjustment to calculate the executive officer's maximum annual incentive payout for that year. The 2007 EOIP has a cap limiting each executive officer's annual incentive payout to a maximum annual amount of $10,000,000. After each executive officer's maximum annual incentive payout has been calculated under the formula, the Committee has the discretion to reduce, but not increase, that amount to arrive at the executive officer's incentive payment. The 2007 EOIP does not specify the criteria that the Committee must use in exercising its discretion to reduce the incentive payment and it also does not require the Committee to make any reductions.
The Plan Multiplier is the sum of the following three components: (1) the absolute financial component; (2) the relative financial component; and (3) the operational component. The absolute financial component is calculated by dividing Intel's current-year net income by Intel's average net income over the previous three years. The relative financial component is calculated by Intel's annual net income growth (plus 1) divided by the simple average of the annual net income growth for the S&P 100 and the technology peer companies (plus 1) (the "market net income"). The operational component is based on performance against operational goals under success criteria approved by the Committee each year.
For purposes of the absolute financial and relative financial components, Intel's net income and the market's net income may be adjusted based on a criteria selected by the Committee in its sole discretion. Such criteria may include asset write-downs; acquisition-related charges; litigation, claim judgments, settlements, or tax settlements; the effects of changes in tax law, changes in accounting principles, or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; unrealized gains or losses on investments; gains or losses from discontinued operations; consolidated operating results attributable to acquisitions; and any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the annual report to stockholders for the applicable year.
Operational goals may be measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group. Operational goals will include any one or more of the following performance criteria: Financial/Stock Performance (revenue, operating income or net operating income, operating profit or net operating profit, operating margin or profit margin, earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization, income or net income, earnings per share, cash flow, return on equity, return on capital, return on assets or net assets, return on operating revenue, return on invested capital, total stockholder return, stock price performance); Product Design/Development Roadmap (new product innovation, product release schedules, product ship targets, product cost reduction through advanced technology); Cost/Productivity Improvements (performance against cost and productivity goals, inventory/supply chain management initiatives, initiatives/projects related to improvements in infrastructure/support systems, including Human Resources, Information Technology, and Finance, effectiveness of investment strategies toward stated goals), and Market Acceptance/Customer Satisfaction (customer satisfaction, brand recognition/acceptance, market segment share). The Committee may use other criteria that it determines are appropriate to measure the performance of an individual in carrying out his or her assigned duties and responsibilities, as defined within the first 90 days of the performance period.
The 2007 EOIP's claw-back provision provides that Intel can recoup any excess amounts that were paid as a result of Intel's net income having been overstated. If Intel's financial statements are the subject of a restatement due to error or misconduct, Intel may seek reimbursement of excess incentive cash compensation paid under the 2007 EOIP to all executive officers for the relevant performance periods.
The foregoing description of the 2007 EOIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2. For additional information about the 2007 EOIP, refer to Proposal 4 (Approval of the 2007 Executive Officer Incentive Plan) on pages 50-53 of the company's 2005 Proxy Statement, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 27, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
           
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
INTEL CORPORATION
2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE MAY 16, 2007
 
1. PURPOSE
 
The purpose of this Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of Intel Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its Subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively "Intel" or the "Corporation"), by stimulating the efforts of employees who are selected to be participants on behalf of Intel, aligning the long-term interests of participants with those of stockholders, heightening the desire of participants to continue in working toward and contributing to the success of Intel, assisting Intel in competing effectively with other enterprises for the services of new employees necessary for the continued improvement of operations, and to attract, motivate and retain the best available individuals for service to the Corporation. This Plan permits the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units, each of which shall be subject to such conditions based upon continued employment, passage of time or satisfaction of performance criteria as shall be specified pursuant to the Plan.
 
2. DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. ADMINISTRATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. PARTICIPANTS
 
Awards under the Plan may be granted to any person who is an employee or Outside Director of the Corporation. Outside Directors may be granted Awards only pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan. The status of the Chairman of the Board of Directors as an employee or Outside Director shall be determined by the Committee. Any person designated by the Corporation as an independent contractor shall not be treated as an employee and shall not be eligible for Awards under the Plan.
 
5. EFFECTIVE DATE AND EXPIRATION OF PLAN
 
 
 
 
 
6. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
 
 
7. PLAN AWARDS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. EMPLOYEE PARTICIPANT AWARDS
 
 
The Committee may grant Stock Options or SARs at any time and from time to time prior to the expiration of the Plan to eligible employee Participants selected by the Committee. No Participant shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares subject to Stock Options or SARs hereunder until said Shares have been issued. Each Stock Option or SAR shall be evidenced only by such agreements, notices and/or terms or conditions documented in such form (including by electronic communications) as may be approved by the Committee. Each Stock Option grant will expressly identify the Stock Option as an ISO or as a Non-qualified Stock Option. Stock Options or SARs granted pursuant to the Plan need not be identical but each must contain or be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
Each Stock Option or SAR that vests in full in less than five (5) years (standard grants) must expire within a period of not more than seven (7) years from the grant date and each Stock Option or SAR that vests in full in five (5) or more years (long-term retention grants) must expire within a period of not more than ten (10) years from the grant date. In each case, the Option Agreement or SAR Agreement may provide for expiration prior to the end of the stated
 
 
 
term of the Award in the event of the termination of employment or service of the Participant to whom it was granted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be granted to any person if immediately after the grant of such Award, such person would own stock, including stock subject to outstanding Awards held by him or her under the Plan or any other plan established by the Corporation, amounting to more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Corporation. To the extent that the Option Agreement specifies that a Stock Option is intended to be treated as an ISO, the Stock Option is intended to qualify to the greatest extent possible as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and shall be so construed; provided, however, that any such designation shall not be interpreted as a representation, guarantee or other undertaking on the part of the Corporation that the Stock Option is or will be determined to qualify as an ISO. If and to the extent that any Shares are issued under a portion of any Stock Option that exceeds the $100,000 limitation of Section 422 of the Code, such Shares shall not be treated as issued under an ISO notwithstanding any designation otherwise. Certain decisions, amendments, interpretations and actions by the Committee and certain actions by a Participant may cause a Stock Option to cease to qualify as an ISO pursuant to the Code and by accepting a Stock Option the Participant agrees in advance to such disqualifying action.
 
 
The Committee may grant Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units at any time and from time to time prior to the expiration of the Plan to eligible employee Participants selected by the Committee. A Participant shall have rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award hereunder only to the extent specified in this Plan or the Restricted Stock Agreement evidencing such Award. Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced only by such agreements, notices and/or terms or conditions documented in such form (including by electronic communications) as may be approved by the Committee. Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan need not be identical but each must contain or be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award in less than pro rata installments over three years from the date the Award is made, other than with respect to such Awards that are issued upon exercise or settlement of Stock Options or SARs or upon the death, disability or retirement of the Participant, in each case as specified in the agreement evidencing such Award. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Committee and specified at the time the Restricted Stock Award is granted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
sold or disposed of. The return of Restricted Stock Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Corporation due to the executive officer's Contributing Misconduct. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties. For any Participant who is an executive officer, the determination of the Committee or of the Authorized Officer shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors.
 
9. OUTSIDE DIRECTOR AWARDS
 
Each Outside Director may be granted Awards (each an "Outside Director Award") each fiscal year for up to 30,000 Shares, as determined by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the foregoing limitation shall be subject to adjustment under Section 11. The number of Shares subject to each Outside Director Award, or the formula pursuant to which such number shall be determined, the type or types of Awards included in the Outside Director Awards, the date of grant and the vesting, expiration and other terms applicable to such Outside Director Awards shall be specified from time to time by the Board of Directors, subject to the terms of this Plan, including the terms specified in Section 8. If the Board of Directors reasonably believes that an Outside Director has committed an act of misconduct as specified in Section 8(a)(v) or 8(b)(vi), the Board of Directors may suspend the Outside Director's right to exercise any Stock Option or SAR and/or the vesting of any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Board of Directors determines that an Outside Director has committed an act of misconduct, neither the Outside Director nor his or her estate shall be entitled to exercise any Stock Option or SAR whatsoever and shall forfeit any unvested Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award.
 
10. OTHER PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AWARDS
 
 
 
 
 
through advanced technology, (t) brand recognition/acceptance, (u) product ship targets, or (v) customer satisfaction. The Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in or provisions under tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs and (v) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Corporation's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year. Notwithstanding satisfaction of any completion of any Qualifying Performance Criteria, to the extent specified at the time of grant of an Award, the number of Shares, Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Units or other benefits granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under an Award on account of satisfaction of such Qualifying Performance Criteria may be reduced by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
 
 
 
 
 
11. ADJUSTMENT OF AND CHANGES IN THE COMMON STOCK
 
 
 
subscription rights thereto, or any issuance of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stock ahead of or affecting the Shares or other securities of the Corporation or the rights thereof, or the dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise. Further, except as expressly provided herein or by the Committee, (i) the issuance by the Corporation of shares of stock or any class of securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash, property, labor or services, upon direct sale, upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Corporation convertible into such shares or other securities, (ii) the payment of a dividend in property other than Shares, or (iii) the occurrence of any similar transaction, and in any case whether or not for fair value, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of Shares subject to Stock Options or other Awards theretofore granted or the purchase price per Share, unless the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, that an adjustment is necessary or appropriate.
 
 
 
 
 
12. LISTING OR QUALIFICATION OF COMMON STOCK
 
In the event that the Committee determines in its discretion that the listing or qualification of the Shares available for issuance under the Plan on any securities exchange or quotation or trading system or under any applicable law or governmental regulation is necessary as a condition to the issuance of such Shares, a Stock Option or SAR may not be exercised in whole or in part and a Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not vest or be settled unless such listing, qualification, consent or approval has been unconditionally obtained.
 
13. TERMINATION OR AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN
 
The Board of Directors may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan and the Board or the Committee may to the extent permitted by the Plan amend any agreement or other document evidencing an Award made under this Plan, provided, however, that the Corporation shall submit for stockholder approval any amendment (other than an amendment pursuant to the adjustment provisions of Section 11) required to be submitted for stockholder approval by NASDAQ or that otherwise would:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, no such amendment or alteration shall be made which would impair the rights of any Participant, without such Participant's consent, under any Award theretofore granted, provided that no such consent shall be required with respect to any amendment or alteration if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that such amendment or alteration either (i) is required or advisable in order for the Corporation, the Plan or the Award to satisfy or conform to any law or regulation or to meet the requirements of any accounting standard, or (ii) is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under such Award, or that any such diminishment has been adequately compensated.
 
14. WITHHOLDING
 
To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, the Committee may and/or a Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise with respect to any Stock Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award, or any sale of Shares. The Corporation shall not be required to issue Shares or to recognize the disposition of such Shares until such obligations are satisfied. To the extent permitted or required by the Committee, these obligations may or shall be satisfied by having the Corporation withhold a portion of the Shares of stock that otherwise would be issued to a Participant under such Award or by tendering Shares previously acquired by the Participant.
 
15. GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF PLAN
 
Neither the adoption of this Plan by the Board of Directors nor the submission of this Plan to the shareholders of the Corporation for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board of Directors or the Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as either may deem desirable, including, without limitation, the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or restricted stock units otherwise than under this Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
 
17. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS
 
This Plan, the grant and exercise of Awards thereunder, and the obligation of the Corporation to sell, issue or deliver Shares under such Awards, shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental or regulatory agency as may be required. The Corporation shall not be required to register in a Participant's name or deliver any Shares prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of such Shares under any federal, state or local law or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Committee shall determine to be necessary or advisable. To the extent the Corporation is unable to or the Committee deems it infeasible to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Corporation's counsel to be necessary or advisable for the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, the Corporation shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. No Stock Option shall be exercisable and no Shares shall be issued and/or transferable under any other Award unless a registration statement with respect to the Shares underlying such Stock Option is effective and current or the Corporation has determined that such registration is unnecessary.
 
18. LIABILITY OF CORPORATION
 
The Corporation shall not be liable to a Participant or other persons as to: (a) the non-issuance or sale of Shares as to which the Corporation has been unable to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority deemed by the Corporation's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder; and (b) any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant or other person due to the receipt, exercise or settlement of any Stock Option or other Award granted hereunder.
 
 
 
 

       
 
 
INTEL CORPORATION
 
2007 EXECUTIVE OFFICER INCENTIVE PLAN
 
EFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2007
 
1. PURPOSE
The purpose of this 2007 Executive Officer Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") is to motivate and reward eligible employees by making a portion of their cash compensation (the "Incentive Plan Payments") dependent on Intel Corporation (the "Company") performance, and individual performance, as defined herein and determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee").
 
2. COVERED INDIVIDUALS
The individuals to whom Incentive Plan Payments may be made hereunder shall be the executive officers of the Company, and such other officers of the Company as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion (the "Covered Individuals").
 
3. THE COMMITTEE
(a)          The Committee shall have the sole discretion and authority to administer and interpret the Incentive Plan.
 
(b)           Subject to the express provisions and limitations of this Incentive Plan, the Committee shall be authorized and empowered to do all things necessary or desirable, in its sole discretion, in connection with the administration of the Incentive Plan, including, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)           All decisions, determinations and interpretations by the Committee regarding the Incentive Plan and Incentive Plan Payments shall be final and binding on all Covered Individuals. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems relevant to making such decisions, determinations and interpretations including, without
 
limitation, the recommendations or advice of any director, officer or employee of the Company and such attorneys, consultants and accountants as it may select.
 
4. AMOUNT OF INCENTIVE
(a)           A Covered Individual's Incentive Plan Payment shall be the product of (i) the Executive Officer Incentive Plan Multiplier, as described in paragraph (b) below, multiplied by (ii) the Covered Individual's Incentive Baseline, as described in paragraph (f) below, multiplied by (iii) the Covered Individual's Performance Adjustment, as described in paragraph (g) below, and subject to a Discretionary Reduction and Maximum Incentive Plan Payment as described in paragraph (h) below.
 
(b)           Executive Officer Incentive Plan Multiplier. The Executive Officer Incentive Plan Multiplier shall be determined by adding the sum of (i), (ii) and (iii), where:
 
(i) is the Company's net income for the performance period divided by the average of the Company's net income from the previous three fiscal years;
 
(ii) is the Company's net income growth for the performance period (plus 1), divided by the average of the net income growth of the Market (plus 1) (the "Market" is the S&P 100 and a group of technology peer companies, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion with respect to each performance period); and
 
(iii) is the percentage of performance against operational goals, not to exceed 125%, (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion with respect to each performance period).
 
(c)           The Company's net income and the Market's net income may be adjusted based upon qualifying criteria selected by the Committee in its sole discretion. Such criteria may include, but are not limited to asset write-downs; acquisition-related charges; litigation, claim judgments, settlements or tax settlements; the effects of changes in tax law, changes in accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; unrealized gains or losses on investments; and any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the annual report to stockholders for the applicable year.
 
(d)           In the event one of the S&P 100 or technology peer companies has an event which significantly alters the value of Section 4(b)(ii) (e.g., large acquisition or divestiture, extra-ordinary event which has significant positive or negative impact on earnings), the Committee may exclude that company from the formula for one or more years.
(e)           The operational goals shall include any one or more of the following performance criteria, measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee: (i) product release schedules, (ii) new product innovation, (iii) product cost reduction through advanced technology, (iv) brand recognition/acceptance, (v) product ship targets, (vi) customer satisfaction, (vii) initiatives/projects related to improvements in infrastructure/ support systems, including Human Resources, Information Technology and Finance, (viii) performance against cost and productivity goals, (ix) effectiveness of investment strategies towards stated goals, (x) inventory/supply chain management initiatives, (xi) cash flow, (xii) earnings per share, (xiii) earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, (xiv) return on equity, (xv) total stockholder return, (xvi) share price performance, (xvii) return on capital, (xviii) return on assets or net assets, (xix) revenue, (xx) income or net income, (xxi) operating income or net operating income, (xxii) operating profit or net operating profit, (xxiii) operating margin or profit margin, (xxiv) return on operating revenue, (xxv) return on invested capital, (xxvi) market segment share, or (xxvii) such other criteria as the Committee may determine are appropriate to measure the performance of a Covered Individual in carrying out his or her assigned duties and responsibilities, as defined within the first 90 days of the performance period. If an unusual or extra-ordinary event makes one or more of the operational goals obsolete, the Committee has the discretion to adjust or eliminate the goal(s) as appropriate.
 
(f)            Incentive Baseline. The incentive baseline amount for each covered individual shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion with respect to each performance period. A performance period shall be a single fiscal year of the Company unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
(g)           Individual Performance Adjustment: The individual performance adjustment percentage can be between 90% and 110%. The Committee reserves the right to apply subjective, discretionary criteria to determine the individual performance adjustment percentage.
 
(h)          Discretionary Reduction and Maximum Incentive Plan Payment. Upon determining the result of multiplying the Covered Individual's Incentive Baseline, Executive Officer Incentive Plan Multiplier and Individual Performance Adjustment, the Committee may reduce, but not to increase, the result by applying discretionary criteria. The Incentive Plan Payment payable hereunder shall be paid in lieu of any incentive payable under the Company's broad-based variable cash incentive program. No Covered Individual shall receive an Incentive Plan Payment for a performance period in excess of $10,000,000.
 
5. PAYMENT OF INCENTIVE
(a)           Incentive Plan Payments shall be made in cash, and no Incentive Plan Payment shall be paid to a Covered Individual unless he or she is an employee of the Company as of the last day of the performance period. The Committee may establish rules in its sole discretion regarding the Incentive Plan Payment which shall be made in the case of the retirement, death or disability of a Covered Individual prior to the end of a performance period, and the persons to whom such payments shall be made.
 
(b)           If the Company's financial statements are the subject of a restatement due to error or misconduct, to the extent permitted by governing law, in all appropriate cases, the Company will seek reimbursement of excess incentive cash compensation paid under the Incentive Plan to Covered Individuals for the relevant performance periods. For purposes of this Incentive Plan, excess incentive cash compensation means the positive difference, if any, between (i) the Incentive Plan Payment paid to the Covered Individual and (ii) the Incentive Plan Payment that would have been made to the Covered Individual, not including the effect of any adjustments under Sections 4 (g) and (h), had the multiplier been calculated based on the Company's financial statements as restated. The Company will not be required to award Covered Individuals an additional Incentive Plan Payment should the restated financial statements result in a higher Incentive Plan Payment.
 
6. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate this Incentive Plan at any time by action of the Board of Directors or the Committee with respect to future services of Covered Individuals.
 
7. TAX WITHHOLDING
The Company shall have the right to make all payments or distributions pursuant to the Incentive Plan to any person, net of any applicable federal, state and local payroll or withholding taxes, or the applicable taxes of any foreign jurisdiction (collectively, "Taxes"), required to be paid or withheld. The Company shall have the right to withhold from wages or other amounts otherwise payable to such covered individual such Taxes as may be required by law, or if permitted by law, to otherwise require the covered individual to pay such Taxes. If such person shall fail to make such Tax payments as are required, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such Taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to such covered individual or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy such Tax obligations.
 
8. SEVERABILITY
If any provision of this Incentive Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall (a) be deemed limited to the extent that such court of competent jurisdiction deems it lawful, valid and/or enforceable and as so limited shall remain in full force and effect, and (b) not affect any other provision of the Incentive Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force and effect. If the making of any payment or the provision of any other benefit provided for under the Incentive Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent any other payment or benefit from being made or provided under the Incentive Plan, and if the making of any payment in full or the provision of any other benefit provided for under the Incentive Plan in full would be unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable, then such
 
unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent such payment or benefit from being made or provided in part, to the extent that it would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable, and the maximum payment or benefit that would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable shall be made or provided under the Incentive Plan.
 
9. NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Unless the Committee expressly provides otherwise in writing, no Covered Individual nor any other person may sell, assign, convey, gift, pledge or otherwise hypothecate or alienate any Incentive Plan Payment.
 
10. NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF THE INCENTIVE PLAN
The adoption of the Incentive Plan by the Board of Directors and submission of the Incentive Plan to stockholders for approval do not create any limitation on the power of the Committee or the Board of Directors to adopt other cash or equity-based compensation programs. Neither the adoption of the Incentive Plan by the Board of Directors nor the submission of the Incentive Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board of Directors or the Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as either may deem desirable, including, without limitation, cash or equity-based compensation arrangements, either tied to performance or otherwise, and any such other arrangements as may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
11. EMPLOYMENT AT WILL
Neither the Incentive Plan, the selection of a person as a Covered Individual, the payment of any Incentive Plan Payment to any Covered Individual, nor any action by the Company or the Committee shall be held or construed to confer upon any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company. The Company expressly reserves the right to discharge any Covered Individual whenever in the sole discretion of the Company its interest may so require.
 
12. NO VESTED INTEREST OR RIGHT
At no time before the actual payment of an Incentive Plan Payment to any Covered Individual or other person shall any Covered Individual or other person accrue any vested interest or right whatsoever under the Incentive Plan, and the Company has no obligation to treat Covered Individuals identically under the Incentive Plan.
 
13. GOVERNING LAW
The Incentive Plan and any agreements and documents hereunder shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware and applicable federal law. The Committee may provide that any dispute concerning the Incentive Plan shall be presented and determined in such forum as the Committee may specify, including through binding arbitration.
 
14. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Incentive Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2007 subject to approval by vote of stockholders at the Company's 2007 annual meeting.
 
 
 
 
 


