FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20070910090527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report: September 10, 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Intel Corporation's announcement regarding an update to forward-looking statements relating to the third quarter of 2007 as presented in a press release of September 10, 2007. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore and hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
INTEL NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
INTEL UPDATES THIRD-QUARTER REVENUE
AND GROSS MARGIN EXPECTATIONS
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Sept. 10, 2007  As a result of stronger than expected worldwide demand for its computing products, Intel Corporation now expects revenue for the third quarter to be between $9.4 billion and $9.8 billion as compared to the previous range of $9.0 billion to $9.6 billion.
The gross margin percentage for the third quarter is expected to be in the upper half of the previous range of 52 percent plus or minus a couple of points. All other expectations are unchanged.
Intel's third-quarter Business Outlook was originally published in the company's second-quarter 2007 earnings release, available at intc.com. The company is scheduled to report its third-quarter financial results on Oct. 16.
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after Sept. 9. Many factors could affect Intel's actual results, and variances from Intel's current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporation's published expectations:
 
 more 
 
Intel/Page 2
 
margin percentage are affected by the timing of new Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intel's response to such actions; Intel's ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products; and the availability of sufficient components from suppliers to meet demand. Factors that could cause demand to be different from Intel's expectations include customer acceptance of Intel's and competitors' products; changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations; changes in the level of inventory at customers; and changes in business and economic conditions.
 
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel's results is included in Intel's SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
 
more
 
Intel/Page 3
 
Intel, the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at
www.intel.com/pressroom
.
---
 
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 
 


