FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20080115170454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d)
of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: January 15, 2008
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(408) 765-8080
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01     Regulation FD Disclosure.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
Intel Posts Record Quarterly Revenue
2007 Operating Income $8.2 Billion, up 45 Percent
Fourth-Quarter Revenue $10.7 Billion, up 10.5 Percent Year-over-Year
Gross Margin 58 Percent, up 8.5 Points Year-over-Year
Operating Income $3 Billion, up 105 Percent Year-over-Year
Record Microprocessor and Chipset Units and Revenue
Net Income $2.3 Billion; EPS 38 Cents
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Intel Corporation today announced record fourth-quarter revenue of $10.7 billion, operating income of $3 billion, net income of $2.3 billion and earnings per share (EPS) of 38 cents. For 2007, operating income grew 45 percent, reflecting the companys ongoing efficiency programs, with profits growing significantly faster than revenue.
2007 was a breakthrough year for innovation at Intel, said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. We realized the benefits of our investments in new products and our efforts to drive efficiencies. Our customers embraced the Intel Core microarchitecture, extending our competitive leadership and driving a significant gain in operating results. We enter 2008 with the best combination of products, silicon technology and manufacturing leadership in our history.
For 2007, Intel achieved revenue of $38.3 billion, operating income of $8.2 billion, net income of $7 billion and EPS of $1.18. Intel generated more than $12 billion in cash from operations, paid record cash dividends of $2.6 billion and used $2.75 billion to repurchase 111 million shares of common stock.
Financial Review
Record revenue of $10.7 billion was $88 million below the midpoint of expectations. Revenue for computing-related products was as expected while revenue for NAND memory was lower than expected, primarily due to lower average selling prices (ASPs).
Gross margin was 58.1 percent, up 6.9 points from the third quarter driven by higher unit volumes and lower unit costs, 45nm microprocessor qualification and lower 45nm start-up costs. Gross margin in the third quarter reflected the impact of a legal settlement.
Spending was in line with expectations.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges of $234 million were higher than the previous forecast of $130 million due to an impairment of NOR flash assets related to the proposed Numonyx transaction.
Key Product Trends (Sequential)
Total microprocessor units set a record; the ASP was flat.
Chipset units set a record.
Total flash units were flat.
Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook for the first quarter of 2008 does not include the potential impact of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after Jan. 14. Intels Business Outlook for the full year reflects the expectation that the Numonyx transaction will close during the first quarter.
Q1 2008 Outlook
Revenue: Between $9.4 billion and $10 billion.
Gross margin: 56 percent plus or minus a couple of points.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A): Between $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges: Approximately $100 million.
Net gains from equity investments and interest and other: Approximately $175 million.
Tax rate: Approximately 31 percent.
Depreciation: Approximately $1.1 billion.
2008 Outlook
Gross margin: 57 percent plus or minus a few points.
R&D: Approximately $5.9 billion.
MG&A: Approximately $5.5 billion.
Capital spending: $5.2 billion plus or minus $200 million.
Tax rate: Approximately 31 percent.
Depreciation: $4.4 billion plus or minus $100 million.
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the first quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the factors set forth below in the section titled Risk Factors to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations published expectations.
Recent Highlights
Intel generated record unit shipments of microprocessors and chipsets for the fourth quarter of 2007 and the year.
Intel introduced 32 microprocessors based on the companys breakthrough 45nm process technology with Hafnium-based high-k metal gate technology, extending the companys leadership in energy-efficient processing. Intels 45nm ramp has been the fastest in company history.
At the International Consumer Electronics Show, Intel described new low-power, low-cost Intel processors designed to bring the Internet to consumer electronics (CE) devices for the living room and ultra-mobile devices that can fit in ones pocket. Intels processor for CE devices, code-named Canmore, will support 1080p video, 7.1 surround-sound audio and 3-D graphics.
Risk Factors
Factors that could cause demand to be different from Intel's expectations include changes in business and economic conditions, including conditions in the credit market that could affect consumer confidence; customer acceptance of Intels and competitors products; changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers. Intels results could be affected by the timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures.
Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Additionally, Intel is in the process of transitioning to its next generation of products on 45nm process technology, and there could be execution issues associated with these changes, including product defects and errata along with lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Revenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of new Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intels response to such actions; Intels ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products; and the availability of sufficient components from suppliers to meet demand.
The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on changes in revenue levels; product mix and pricing; capacity utilization; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; excess or obsolete inventory; manufacturing yields; changes in unit costs; impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets; and the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs, including start-up costs.
Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products, the level of revenue and profits, and impairments of long-lived assets.
Intel is in the midst of a structure and efficiency program that is resulting in several actions that could have an impact on expected expense levels and gross margin. Intel is also in the midst of forming Numonyx, a private, independent semiconductor company, together with STMicroelectronics N.V. and Francisco Partners L.P. A change in the financial performance of the contributed businesses could have a negative impact on our financial statements. Intels equity proportion of the new companys results will be reflected on its financial statements below operating income and with a one quarter lag. The results could have a negative impact on Intels overall financial results.
The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.
Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on fixed income and equity market volatility; gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities; gains or losses from equity method investments; impairment charges related to marketable, non-marketable and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
Intels results could be affected by the amount, type, and valuation of share-based awards granted as well as the amount of awards cancelled due to employee turnover and the timing of award exercises by employees.
Intel's results could be impacted by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in the countries in which Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 29, 2007.
Status of Business Outlook
During the quarter, Intels corporate representatives may reiterate the Business Outlook during private meetings with investors, investment analysts, the media and others. From the close of business on March 7 until publication of the companys first-quarter 2008 earnings release, Intel will observe a Quiet Period during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the companys press releases and filings with the SEC should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Analyst Meeting
The company plans to hold the Intel 2008 Investor Meeting on March 5-6. Webcast opportunities and presentations will be posted on the companys investor relations Web site at intc.com.
Earnings Webcast
Intel will hold a public webcast at 2:30 p.m. PST today on its Investor Relations Web site at intc.com. A webcast replay and MP3 audio download will also be made available on the site.
Intel, the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom and at blogs.intel.com.
Intel, the Intel logo and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


