FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20080415164745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d)
of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report: April 15, 2008
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(408) 765-8080
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
1
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
Intel Posts Record First Quarter Revenue of $9.7 Billion
Record Server Microprocessor Revenue
Revenue up 9 Percent Year-over-Year
Gross Margin up 4 Points Year-over-Year
Operating Income up 23 Percent Year-over-Year
Net Income $1.4 Billion; EPS 25 Cents
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Intel Corporation today announced record first-quarter revenue of $9.7 billion, operating income of $2.1 billion, net income of $1.4 billion and earnings per share (EPS) of 25 cents.
Our first quarter results demonstrate a strengthening core business and a solid global market environment, said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. We saw healthy demand for our leading-edge processors and chipsets across all segments. Looking forward, we remain optimistic about our growth opportunities as we continue to reap the benefits of our 45nm technology leadership.
Financial and Key Product Information
Intels microprocessor and chipset businesses came in as expected. Total microprocessor units were lower sequentially, with the ASP approximately flat.
Consistent with the companys updated expectations, NAND revenue was flat as significant price declines offset unit growth.
Gross margin was 53.8 percent, in line with the companys revised expectation.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges of $329 million included $275 million in impairment charges for the assets transferred to Numonyx.
The effective tax rate was 33.5 percent, higher than the previous expectation of approximately 31 percent, primarily driven by a higher than expected proportion of profits being in higher-tax jurisdictions along with the tax effects of impairment charges related to the assets sold to Numonyx.
The company used $2.5 billion to repurchase 122 million shares of its common stock.
Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after April 14.
Q2 2008:
Revenue: Between $9.0 billion and $9.6 billion. The forecast reflects a significant reduction in NOR flash memory revenue as a result of the Numonyx transaction.
Gross margin: 56 percent plus or minus a couple of points.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A): Between $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges: Approximately $250 million.
Net gains from equity investments and interest and other: Approximately $75 million.
Tax rate: Approximately 33 percent.
Depreciation: Approximately $1.1 billion.
Full-Year 2008:
Gross margin: 57 percent plus or minus a few points, unchanged.
R&D: Approximately $6 billion, higher than the previous expectation of approximately $5.9 billion.
MG&A: Approximately $5.5 billion, unchanged.
Capital spending: $5.2 billion plus or minus $200 million, unchanged.
Tax rate: The tax rate for the third and fourth quarters is expected to be approximately 33 percent.
Depreciation: $4.4 billion plus or minus $100 million, unchanged.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the second quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
Demand could be different from Intels expectations due to changes in business and economic conditions, including conditions in the credit market that could affect consumer confidence; customer acceptance of Intels and competitors products; changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers.
Intels results could be affected by the timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures.
Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Additionally, Intel is in the process of transitioning to its next generation of products on 45nm process technology, and there could be execution issues associated with these changes, including product defects and errata along with lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Revenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of new Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intels response to such actions; Intels ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products; and the availability of sufficient supply of components from suppliers to meet demand.
The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on changes in revenue levels; product mix and pricing; capacity utilization; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; excess or obsolete inventory; manufacturing yields; changes in unit costs; impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets; and the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs, including start-up costs.
Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products, the level of revenue and profits, and impairments of long-lived assets.
Intel is in the midst of a structure and efficiency program that is resulting in several actions that could have an impact on expected expense levels and gross margin.
The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.
Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on fixed income and equity market volatility; gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities; gains or losses from equity method investments; impairment charges related to marketable, non-marketable and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
Intel's results could be impacted by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in the countries in which Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 29, 2007.
Status of Business Outlook
During the quarter, Intels corporate representatives may reiterate the Business Outlook during private meetings with investors, investment analysts, the media and others. From the close of business on May 30 until publication of the companys second-quarter 2008 earnings release, Intel will observe a Quiet Period during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the companys press releases and filings with the SEC should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Earnings Webcast
Intel will hold a public webcast at 2:30 p.m. PDT today on its Investor Relations Web site at intc.com. A webcast replay and MP3 audio download will also be made available on the site.
Intel, the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at and at blogs.intel.com.
www.intel.com/pressroom
Intel, the Intel logo and Intel Xeon, Intel Atom and Intel Centrino Atom are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


