FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20081112170350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
                                                                                                
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 12, 2008
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Intel Corporation's announcement regarding an update to forward-looking statements relating to 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2008 as presented in a press release of November 12, 2008. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Intel's Fourth-Quarter Business Below Expectations
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 12, 2008  Intel Corporation today announced that fourth-quarter
business will be below the company's previous outlook. The company now expects fourth-quarter revenue to be $9 billion, plus or minus $300 million, lower than the previous expectation of between $10.1 billion and $10.9 billion. Revenue is being affected by significantly weaker than expected demand in all geographies and market segments. In addition, the PC supply chain is aggressively reducing component inventories.
The company's expectation for fourth-quarter gross margin is now 55 percent plus or minus a couple of points, lower than the previous expectation of 59 percent plus or minus a couple of points, primarily due to lower revenue and other charges associated with the weaker-than-expected demand environment.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A) is expected to be approximately $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter, lower than the previous expectation of approximately $2.9 billion, primarily due to lower revenue- and profit-related spending. For the full year, spending is expected to be approximately $11.4 billion, lower than the previous expectation of approximately $11.5 billion.
All other expectations are unchanged.
 
Status of Business Outlook
 
 more 
 
Intel/Page 2
 
Today's announcement replaces the update previously scheduled for Dec. 4. From the close of business on Nov. 28 until publication of the company's fourth quarter results on Jan. 15, 2009, Intel will observe a "Quiet Period" during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the company's press releases and filings with the SEC should be considered to be historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
 
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the fourth quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intel's actual results, and variances from Intel's current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporation's expectations.
 
more
 
Intel/Page 3
 
incorporate new features into its products; and the availability of sufficient supply of components from suppliers to meet demand.
 
more
 
Intel/Page 4
 
investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments    will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel's results is included in Intel's SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 27, 2008.
Intel [NASDAQ: INTC], the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom and blogs.intel.com
 30 
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 
 


