FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20080417122205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                                                                
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 14, 2008
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
of incorporation)
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On April 14, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Intel Corporation (the "Company") approved a form of restricted stock unit agreement that was used in connection with the grant of stock units to Paul S. Otellini pursuant to the Company's Executive Long Term Stock Program ("ELTSOP RSU Award"). The form of ELTSOP RSU Award agreement may also be used for other grants from time to time in the future.
 
The ELTSOP RSU Award is an incentive and retention award made pursuant to the Company's stockholder-approved 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). The form of ELTSOP RSU Award agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of restricted stock units pursuant to the 2006 Plan and the Company's ELTSOP RSU program. The following description is qualified by reference to the terms of the form of RSU agreement, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K. The ELTSOP RSU Award is also subject to the terms of the 2006 Plan, a copy of which was filed as exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed May 16, 2007.
 
The ELTSOP RSU Award agreement is subject to administration and interpretation by the committee of the Board of Directors designated pursuant to the 2006 Plan, or by its delegate. The ELTSOP RSU Award will vest 25% annually beginning five years after the date of grant, subject to continued employment. In the event of termination of employment other than upon death, Disablement or Retirement, the ELTSOP RSU Award will be cancelled as of the date of employment termination to the extent it is unvested.
 
The ELTSOP RSU Award also is subject to accelerated vesting upon the participant's death or Disablement. If an ELTSOP RSU Award is partially vested upon a participant's retirement at age 60 or older, the ELTSOP RSU Award will continue to vest following retirement in accordance with the vesting terms of the Notice of Grant. If an ELTSOP RSU Award is unvested at the time of a participant's retirement at age 60 or older, the vesting terms will be accelerated so that 25% of the ELTSOP RSU Award will vest on the retirement date and the remaining RSUs will vest 25% on each of the next three anniversaries of the participant's retirement date. Until shares are issued for vested ELTSOP RSU Awards, they do not provide any rights of a stockholder and do not accrue dividend equivalent rights. The ELTSOP RSU Award is not transferable.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report:
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

                
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
INTEL CORPORATION
2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS GRANTED TO PAUL S. OTELLINI ON APRIL 17, 2008 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN (under the ELTSOP RSU program)
 
These standard terms and conditions ("Standard Terms") apply to Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") granted to you, Paul S. Otellini, under the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). Your Notice of Grant, these Standard Terms and the 2006 Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and Intel Corporation (the "Corporation") regarding the RSUs identified in your Notice of Grant.
Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through each vesting date specified in the Notice of Grant, the RSUs shall vest and be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporation's Common Stock, $.001 par value (the "Common Stock"), specified on the Notice of Grant with respect to such vesting date, except as otherwise provided in these Standard Terms. If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the Nasdaq Stock Market ("NASDAQ") is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the next following NASDAQ business day. The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan.
RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of Grant and these Standard Terms. If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below) prior to the vesting dates set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs will be cancelled.
Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable following vesting of the RSUs, provided that you have satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 9 of these Standard Terms and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to
 
 
 
 
accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock. The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation. In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporation's counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines appropriate to address tax withholding and other administrative matters.
If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the "Committee"), including any Subcommittee or "Authorized Officer" (as defined in Section 8(a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the vesting of your RSUs may be suspended pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs not vested as of the date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to the RSUs whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on account of death, Disablement (defined below), or Retirement (defined below) all RSUs not then vested shall be cancelled on the
 
 
 
 
date of employment termination regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a divestiture or otherwise. For purposes of this Section 5, your employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes of this provision if either (a) the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision.
For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty (60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future Intel RSU grants, nor would your transfer from the Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if you die while employed by the Corporation, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms and upon your termination of employment as a result of a determination of Disablement, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
For purposes of this Section 7, "Disablement" shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, "Disablement" shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation.
If you retire at age 60 or older and you are partially vested under the original vesting terms of your RSUs, your RSUs will continue to vest following your retirement in accordance with the vesting terms of the Notice of Grant. In the event you retire at age 60 or older and your RSUs are 0% vested under the original vesting terms of your RSUs, the vesting terms will be accelerated so that your first year of vesting (25% of the total award) will occur on your retirement date. The remaining RSUs will vest on each of the next three anniversaries of your retirement date (25% of the total award each year).
 
 
 
 
RSUs are taxable upon vesting based on the market value on the date of vesting. To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of vesting of a RSU and, if applicable, any sale of shares of the Common Stock. The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied.
Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued under the RSUs that the Corporation determines has a Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations. In the event that the Committee provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation. The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price. For this purpose, "Market Value" will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs vest. The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your RSUs, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any transaction pursuant to this Section 9 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs. The Corporation makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
Your RSUs may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempt to transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs
 
 
 
 
other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation.
You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in these Standard Terms. RSUs shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs. RSUs shall remain terminable pursuant to these Standard Terms at all times until they vest and convert into shares. As a condition to having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs shall have no value for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Standard Terms or the applicable Notice of Grant, your RSUs are subject to reduction by the Corporation if you change your employment classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee.
RSUs are not part of your employment contract (if any) with the Corporation, your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other remuneration for any purposes, including for purposes of computing severance pay or other termination compensation or indemnity.
Any question concerning the interpretation of these Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under the Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion. Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 13(f) to have been arbitrary and capricious.
The 2006 Plan and RSUs may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan.
 
 
 
 
The grant of RSUs to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


