FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20091013162225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d)
of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report:  October 13, 2009
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
1
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3

Exhibit 99.1
Intel Reports Strong Third-Quarter Results
Third-Quarter Revenue $9.4 Billion, Strongest Second-to-Third-Quarter Growth in over 30 years
Gross Margin 58 Percent, Up 7 Points Sequentially
Operating Income $2.6 Billion
Net Income $1.9 Billion
EPS 33 Cents
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 13, 2009--Intel Corporation today reported third-quarter revenue of $9.4 billion. The company reported operating income of $2.6 billion, net income of $1.9 billion and earnings per share (EPS) of 33 cents.
Intels strong third-quarter results underscore that computing is essential to peoples lives, proving the importance of technology innovation in leading an economic recovery, said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. This momentum in the current economic climate, plus our product leadership, gives us confidence about our business prospects going forward. As we look ahead, Intels game-changing 32nm process technology will usher in another wave of innovation from new, powerful Intel Xeon server platforms to high-performance Intel Core processors to low-power Intel Atom processors.
Key Financial Information
Record microprocessor and chipset units.
Mobility Group revenue up 19 percent, Digital Enterprise Group revenue up 14 percent, and Intel Atom microprocessor and chipset revenue up 15 percent to $415 million, all sequentially.
Gross margin was 57.6 percent, higher than the companys expectation.
The average selling price (ASP) for microprocessors was slightly down sequentially.
Inventories were down $315 million sequentially.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A) was $2.75 billion, consistent with the companys expectation.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges were $63 million, higher than the companys expectation.
The net loss from equity investments and interest and other was $47 million, better than the companys expectation.
The effective tax rate was 27 percent, versus the companys expectation of 23 percent.
Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after Oct. 12.
Q4 2009
Revenue: $10.1 billion, plus or minus $400 million.
Gross margin percentage: 62 percent, plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A): Approximately $2.9 billion.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges: Approximately $40 million.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and costs: Approximately $20 million.
Impact of equity investments and interest and other: Approximately zero.
Tax rate: Approximately 26 percent.
Depreciation: Approximately $1.2 billion.
Full Year Capital spending: Expected to be $4.5 billion plus or minus $100 million, down from the prior expectation of $4.7 billion plus or minus $200 million.
Status of Business Outlook
During the quarter, Intels corporate representatives may reiterate the Business Outlook during private meetings with investors, investment analysts, the media and others. From the close of business on Nov. 25 until publication of the companys fourth-quarter earnings release, Intel will observe a Quiet Period during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the companys news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the fourth quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
Demand could be different from Intel's expectations due to factors including changes in business and economic conditions; customer acceptance of Intels and competitors products; changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers.
Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Additionally, Intel is in the process of transitioning to its next generation of products on 32nm process technology, and there could be execution issues associated with these changes, including product defects and errata along with lower than anticipated manufacturing yieldsRevenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of new Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intels response to such actions; and Intels ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products.
.
The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on changes in revenue levels; capacity utilization; start-up costs, including costs associated with the new 32nm process technology; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; excess or obsolete inventory; product mix and pricing; manufacturing yields; changes in unit costs; impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets; and the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs.
Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, as well as restructuring and asset impairment charges, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products and the level of revenue and profits.
The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.
Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities; gains or losses from equity method investments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
The majority of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in managements plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting restructuring charges as well as gains/losses on equity investments and interest and other.
Intel's results could be impacted by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in countries where Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2009.
Earnings Webcast
Intel will hold a public webcast at 2:30 p.m. PDT today on its Investor Relations Web site at . A webcast replay and MP3 download will also be made available on the site.
www.intc.com
Intel [NASDAQ: INTC], the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at and blogs.intel.com
www.intel.com/pressroom
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Xeon, Intel Core, and Intel Atom are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of the European Commission (EC) fine in the amount of 1.06 billion, or about $1.45 billion. In this earnings release the expense associated with the fine is presented separately within operating expenses for the nine-months ended September 26, 2009. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. Set forth below are reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Calculated based on shares of 5,678 for the three months ended June 27, 2009, which is the number of common shares that would have been used in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share if the Company had GAAP net income.
1


