FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20090914092532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report: September 14, 2009
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release of Intel Corporation (Intel) regarding a management reorganization as presented in a press release of September 14, 2009.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Intel Corporation
2200 Mission College Blvd.
Santa Clara, CA 95054-1549
 
 
Intel Announces Organizational Changes
 
Santa Clara, Calif., September 14, 2009  Intel announced a number of important organizational changes today and expansion of some key executive responsibilities.
The changes align the business around the core competencies of Intel Architecture and world class manufacturing, placing operating responsibility for them in three senior executives. In making the changes, Paul Otellini, Intels chief executive, will devote a higher quotient of his time to corporate strategy and driving the companys growth initiatives.
First, Intel is consolidating all of its major product divisions into the newly formed Intel Architecture Group (IAG), which will be co-managed by Sean Maloney and Dadi Perlmutter, both executive vice presidents. Maloney will be responsible for business and operations while Perlmutter will lead product development and architecture. Reporting to them will be all of Intels components businesses based on the Intel architecture, as well as all the development and marketing teams needed to bring these products to market.
Second, Intels global manufacturing organization, the Technology and Manufacturing Group (TMG), will now report to Andy Bryant, Intels chief administrative officer and also an executive vice president. The move formalizes the role of influence Bryant already plays with TMG and further increases Otellinis time on business strategy. The TMG organization under Bob Baker, Bill Holt and Brian Krzanich will report to Bryant but otherwise remain unchanged. Baker will continue to oversee Intels NAND flash memory business.
 more 
 
 
Intel/Page 2
 
In addition to micro-architecture planning, microprocessor and chipset development, SOC (system on a chip solutions) and wireless teams managed by Steve Pawlowski, Sunil Shenoy, Rony Friedman, Rob Crooke and Raviv Melamed respectively, there will be six business groups operating under the new IAG umbrella. The first is the PC Client Group that will consolidate Intels existing mobile and desktop product operations. As markets shift to a higher mix of mobile products, this new group will take advantage of common building blocks that have existed for years and enable Intel to better scale cross-platform efforts like security and manageability. The PC Client Group will be led by Mooly Eden. The second is the Data Center Group, focused on servers, cloud computing, networking and high-performance computing.  This group will be led by Kirk Skaugen.  The third is the Visual Computing Group, focused on advanced visualization products, and led by Jim Johnson.  The fourth is the Ultra Mobility
 
Group, which will continue to be led by Anand Chandrasekher and will focus on extending the Intel architecture into mobile handheld devices.  The fifth is the Embedded and Communications Group, which Doug Davis will continue to lead.  And the sixth is the Digital Home Group, still under Eric Kim, that is driving Intel chips into a variety of entertainment systems and consumer electronic applications.
In addition, with Maloneys move to IAG, Tom Kilroy will assume responsibility for Intels Sales and Marketing Group (SMG). Kilroy was previously co-manager of processors for enterprise-class applications, the unit previously known as the Digital Enterprise Group (DEG). Kilroy will report to CEO Otellini.
Separately, Intel also announced today that Pat Gelsinger and Bruce Sewell have decided to leave the company to pursue other opportunities. Gelsinger co-managed DEG and Sewell served as Intels general counsel. Suzan Miller, currently deputy general counsel, will take the role of interim general counsel. We thank Pat and Bruce for many years of service to Intel and wish them well in their future endeavors, said Otellini.
Intel
[NASDAQ: INTC],
the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at
www.intel.com/pressroom
and blogs.intel.com.
 
 30 
 
Intel (and other marks, if applicable) is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 


