FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20091014095500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 13, 2009
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
2200 Mission College Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95054-1549
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(408) 765-8080
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
         
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Stacy J. Smith, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intel Corporation, regarding results of the quarter ended September 26, 2009 and forward-looking statements relating to 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2009, as posted on the company's investor website, intc.com on October 13, 2009. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of the European Commission (EC) fine in the amount of 1.06 billion, or about $1.45 billion. In the earnings release, the expense associated with the fine is presented separately within operating expenses for the nine-months ended September 26, 2009. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated.
 
Management uses operating income, net income and EPS, excluding the EC fine, to conduct and evaluate results of the business, as we believe that analyzing the trends of the underlying business is aided by the removal of the EC fine due to the significant impact it has on comparability. Specifically, in period to period comparisons in our budget and planning process, and with respect to our analysis of actual results, management disregards the EC fine.
 
The economic substance behind management's decision to use such non-GAAP measures is that the charge in all cases substantially decreases operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the second quarter of 2009. The period to period changes do not reflect and do not provide meaningful comparative information regarding typical operating expenses such as compensation and benefits, depreciation, etc. The EC fine was not an expense that was expected, budgeted or planned for. Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. The table below shows the significant effect the EC fine has on comparability of these measures.
 
 
A material limitation associated with the use of these measures as compared to the related GAAP measures is that operating income, net income, and EPS excluding the EC fine do not include all of the costs which are required to be recognized by GAAP, and thus if viewed in isolation may provide less overall understanding of how the EC fine affects the company's financial results. Management compensates for these limitations by continuing to provide operating income, net income and earnings per common share on a GAAP basis, as prominently as the related non-GAAP measure, to ensure that readers understand the amount of the charges and our GAAP results.
 
The company discloses this non-GAAP information to the public to enable investors who wish to more easily assess the company's performance on the same basis applied by management and to ease comparison on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis to our current period results.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Intel Corporation
2200 Mission College Blvd.
Santa Clara, CA 95054-1549
 
CFO Commentary on Third-Quarter Results
 
Summary
Intel delivered exceptional financial results in the third quarter. Better than expected demand in the microprocessor and chipset businesses led to revenue of $9.4B, up 17% sequentially; the largest second quarter to third quarter growth in over 30 years. Compared to the second quarter, gross margin of 57.6% percent was up nearly 7 points. Excluding the impact of the $1.45B EC fine taken in the second quarter, operating profit of $2.6B was up 80% from $1.4B*, and operating profit as a percent of revenue was up 9.6 points to 27%. Net income of $1.9B, was up 77% from $1.0B* in the second quarter excluding the impact of the EC fine.
 
The company's execution was strong and contributed to our improving financial results. The factories executed particularly well with inventories down an additional $300M this quarter, improvements in throughput time and yields, and unit costs better than expected across all lines of business. Additionally, spending was in tight control and the number of employees increased only slightly as a result of the Wind River acquisition. The strong execution can most clearly be seen in the nearly 7 point improvement in gross margin quarter to quarter.
 
Revenue
On a year over year basis, revenue for the third quarter was down 8%, a continued improvement from 15% and 26% year over year declines in the second and first quarters respectively. On a geographic basis, Europe performed seasonally while the other geographies performed significantly better than average seasonal patterns. Healthy back to school sales and inventory stocking in anticipation of a seasonally up fourth quarter led sales higher.
 
Revenue of microprocessors including Intel Atom processors was better than seasonal patterns on higher volume and slightly lower average selling prices. Excluding Intel Atom processors, overall microprocessor average selling prices were slightly lower than the second quarter. We had robust growth in both the Mobility Group and Digital Enterprise Group with sequential revenue growth of 19% and 14% respectively. Intel Atom microarchitecture revenue, including microprocessors and associated chipsets, was $415M, up 15% from the second quarter.
 
* Non-GAAP financial measure. See reconciliation set forth below of non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
Gross margin dollars were $5.4B, $1.3B higher than the second quarter. Gross margin percentage of 57.6% was nearly 7 points higher than the second quarter and higher than the outlook provided in both July and August.
 
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q2'09 to Q3'09 (50.8% to 57.6%, up nearly 7 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
 
The midpoint of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
 
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q3'09 Outlook provided in July to Q3'09 (53% +/- 2 points to 57.6%,
 
up 4.6 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
 
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A was $2.75B, 8% higher than second quarter spending, due to an increase in profit and revenue dependent spending and the reclassification of spending as process engineers moved from cost of sales to R&D. Spending as a percent of revenue improved 2.5 percentage points to 29%. The second quarter $1.45B EC fine is recorded separately within our operating expenses. Additionally, in the separate category of restructuring and asset impairment charges, spending was $63M, higher than the forecast of $40M.
 
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses on equity investments and interest and other income was a net loss of $47M dollars, smaller than the Outlook of a net loss of $80M based on positive fair value adjustments on mark to market trading assets.
 
The provision for taxes in the third quarter was at a 27% tax rate, higher than the 23% previously forecasted. In connection with preparing and filing our 2008 federal tax return and preparing state tax returns, we increased our tax provision. In addition, we saw a higher proportion of profits coming from higher tax jurisdictions. Partially offsetting these increases were settlements and effective settlements with taxing authorities during the quarter.
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Our financial condition strengthened in the third quarter, which can be seen in the balance sheet. Total inventories were down an additional $300M after the nearly $1B reduction in the first half of the year. Total cash investments, comprised of cash, short-term investments, and debt security trading assets ended the quarter at $12.9B, $1.6B higher than the second quarter. Cash flow from operations was approximately $4B. During the third quarter, we issued $2B of convertible debt, paid the EC fine, purchased Wind River, bought back $1.7B in stock, paid $771M in dividends, and purchased $944M in capital assets.
 
Other Items
Wind River revenue was $36M consistent with the Outlook of less than $40M. Amortization of acquisition related intangibles associated with the Wind River acquisition was $11M, leading to less than a penny reduction in earnings per share.
 
For the third quarter, the number of employees was up by 266 from the second quarter, to 80,800 due to the addition of approximately 1,600 Wind River employees.
 
Q4 2009 Outlook
 
The Outlook for the fourth quarter does not include the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that may be completed after October 12th. The mid-point of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
 
Revenue
Revenue is expected to be $10.1B, plus or minus $400M. The midpoint of this range would be an increase of 7.6% from the third quarter, which is consistent with the average historical seasonal increase.
 
Gross Margin
Gross margin in the fourth quarter is expected to be 62%, plus or minus three points.
 
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q3'09 to Q4'09 (57.6% to 62% +/- 3 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
 
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A in the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately $2.9B, up 5% from the third quarter due to revenue and profit dependant spending. In the separate category for restructuring and asset impairment charges, we expect expenses of approximately $40M. Amortization of acquisition related intangibles primarily associated with the Wind River acquisition is expected to be about $20M. Depreciation is forecasted to be approximately $1.2B.
 
 
 
 
 
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses from equity investments and interest and other income is expected to be $0M, better than the second quarter loss because of expected gains in other equity investments and fewer impairments of Intel Capital private portfolio companies.
 
The tax rate for the fourth quarter is now expected to be 26%, three points higher than the prior forecast, due to higher profits coming from higher tax jurisdictions.
 
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Annual capital spending for 2009 is now forecasted to be $4.5B plus or minus $100M, lower than the previous forecast of $4.7B plus or minus $200M. The reduction in forecasted capital spending is primarily due to improved factory efficiencies.
 
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the fourth quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intel's actual results, and variances from Intel's current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporation's expectations.
 
 
 
charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
 
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel's results is included in Intel's SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2009.
 
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the financial information and commentary by Stacy J. Smith, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intel Corporation, regarding results of the quarter ended September 26, 2009 and forward-looking statements relating to 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2009, as posted on the company's investor website, intc.com on October 13, 2009 contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of the European Commission (EC) fine in the amount of 1.06 billion, or about $1.45 billion. In the earnings release the expense associated with the fine is presented separately within operating expenses for the nine-months ended September 26, 2009.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. Set forth below are reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
 
 
 
INTEL CORPORATION
SUPPLEMENTAL RECONCILIATIONS OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP RESULTS
OPERATING INCOME, NET INCOME, AND EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE;
EXCLUDING EUROPEAN COMMISSION FINE
(In millions, except per-share amounts)
 
 
(1) Calculated based on shares of 5,678 for the three months ended June 27, 2009, which is the number of common shares that would have been used in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share if the Company had GAAP net income.
 
 
 


