FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100115140537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Stacy J. Smith, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intel Corporation, for the quarter ended December 26, 2009 and forward-looking statements relating to 2010 and the first quarter of 2010 as posted on the companys investor website, intc.com, on January 14, 2010.  The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the  commentary  contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of a settlement agreement with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) in the amount of $1.25 billion, a charge incurred in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of the European Commission (EC) fine in the amount of 1.06 billion, or about $1.45 billion, and a charge incurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the impairment of our investments in Clearwire Corp. in the amount of $938 million. These non-GAAP measures also exclude the associated impacts of the AMD settlement and the Clearwire impairments on our tax provision. The EC fine did not impact the income tax provision because it was not tax deductible.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated.
Management uses operating income, net income, and earnings per share excluding the EC fine, the AMD settlement, the impairment of our investments in Clearwire and if applicable, related tax impacts of these charges, to conduct and evaluate results of the business. We believe that analyzing the trends of the underlying business is aided by the removal of these charges due to the significant impact they have on comparability. Specifically management excludes these charges for purposes of period to period comparisons in our budget, planning and evaluation processes.
The economic substance behind management's decision to use such non-GAAP measures is that the charges substantially decrease operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the comparative periods presented and obfuscate comparative information regarding typical operating expenses.  The EC fine, AMD settlement and impairment of our investments in Clearwire were unbudgeted expenses.  Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. The table below shows the significant effect these charges have on comparability;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A material limitation associated with the use of these measures as compared to the related GAAP measures is that operating income, net income and earnings per share excluding the EC fine, the AMD settlement, and the impairment of our investments in Clearwire, and tax impacts of these charges, do not include all of the costs which are required to be recognized by GAAP, and thus if viewed in isolation may provide less overall understanding of how the EC fine, AMD settlement, and the impairment of our investments in Clearwire  affect the companys financial results. In addition, these non-GAAP measures do not exclude other income and expenses which may not be part of our ongoing expectations of the business. Management compensates for these limitations by continuing to provide operating income, net income and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as prominently as the related non-GAAP measure, to ensure that readers understand the amount of the charges and our GAAP results.
The company discloses this non-GAAP information to enable investors who wish to more easily assess the companys performance on the same basis applied by management and to ease comparison on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis to our current period results.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Summary
The fourth quarter was a strong ending to a year with a very difficult beginning.  A healthy holiday selling season led to revenue of $10.6B, up 13% sequentially; nearly twice the average seasonal sequential growth seen in the fourth quarter.  Gross margin of 64.7% was a record, and up 7 points compared to the third quarter. Operating income of $2.5B was down 3% sequentially, and up 62% from a year ago.  Net income of $2.3B was up 23% sequentially, and up 875% from a year ago.
We have seen a return of consumer demand and replenishment to normal inventory levels after the precipitous demand drop at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009.  The fourth quarter was consistent with this trend, with unit shipments seasonally up in the typically higher fourth quarter.  In addition, we experienced higher average selling prices due to a mix shift to our latest generation of processors.
Operationally, the fourth quarter of 2009 was one of our most profitable quarters ever and demonstrates the strength of our execution and business model.  Excluding the impact of the $1.25B AMD settlement agreement taken in the fourth quarter:
Revenue
On a year-over-year basis, revenue for the fourth quarter was up 28%, the largest percent increase in over 10 years.  On a geographic basis, Europe grew 15%, a couple points less than the seasonal average.  Japan grew 8%, a little better than the seasonal average.  The Americas and Asia Pacific performed significantly better than average seasonal patterns at 15% and 12% respectively.
Revenue for microprocessors including Intel Atom processors experienced strong sequential growth on unit shipments that were seasonally up along with an increase in average selling prices as we experienced a mix shift to our latest generation of processors.  Intel Atom micro-architecture revenue, including microprocessors and associated chipsets, was $438M, up 6% from the third quarter.  Microprocessor average selling prices both including and excluding Intel Atom processors were higher in the fourth quarter.
*   Non-GAAP financial measure. See reconciliation set forth below of non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
While in the process of finalizing the segment level detail that will align to the companywide reorganization previously announced, we are providing preliminary detail now in an effort to provide visibility into the financial results of the company under the new organizational structure.  There may be minor adjustments among the segments, and final detailed segment level results will be available with the publication of the annual report on Form 10-K.  Comparisons to prior periods below reflect historical numbers revised to reflect the new organizational structure.
The PC Client Group had revenue of $7.8B.  Revenue for this group was 10% higher than the third quarter due to higher unit sales and higher average selling prices, and up 26% from the prior year primarily due to higher unit sales.  The Data Center Group revenue of $2.0B was up 21% from the third quarter, and up 36% from the prior year due to higher microprocessor unit sales and higher average selling prices.
Full year 2009 revenue of $35.1B was down 7% from $37.6B in 2008.
Gross Margin
Gross margin dollars were $6.8B, $1.4B higher than the third quarter.  Gross margin of 64.7% was 7 points higher than the third quarter and at the top end of the outlook range provided in October.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q309 to Q409 (57.6% to 64.7%, up 7.1 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
The midpoint of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q409 Outlook to Q409 (62% +/- 3 points to 64.7%, up 2.7 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
In a year-over-year comparison, gross margin percent is 11.6 points higher than Q408.  The increase is due to higher CPU and chipset sales volume, lower chipset unit cost, no excess capacity charges in Q409, improvements in NAND, and fewer CPU inventory write-offs.
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A was $3.1B, 12% higher than third quarter spending and higher than the outlook provided in both October and November.  In all comparisons, the higher spending is primarily due to an increase in profit dependent spending.  R&D and MG&A spending as a percent of revenue remained at 29% for the fourth quarter, down from 35% in the first quarter and 32% in the second quarter.  The fourth quarter $1.25B AMD settlement agreement is recorded separately within our operating expenses.  Additionally, in the separate category of restructuring and asset impairment charges, spending was $3M, lower than the forecast of $40M.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses on equity investments and interest and other income was a net gain of $96M, better than the $47M loss in the third quarter and better than the outlook of zero.  Relative to the third quarter loss, the fourth quarter was better due to better results on equity method investments and gains on the sales of equity securities.
The provision for taxes in the fourth quarter was at a 12% tax rate, lower than the 20% previously forecasted, primarily due to tax settlements.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Our financial condition strengthened in the fourth quarter, which can be seen in the balance sheet.  Total cash investments, comprised of cash, short-term investments, and debt security trading assets ended the quarter at $13.9B, $1B higher than the third quarter.  Cash flow from operations was over $3B.  During the fourth quarter, we paid the AMD settlement agreement, paid $774M in dividends, and purchased $1.1B in capital assets.  Total inventories increased $445M due to the qualification for sale and mix of 32nm products.
For 2009, total cash investments, comprised of cash, short-term investments, and debt security trading assets grew by $2.4B. We generated more than $11B in cash from operations, spent $4.5B in capital, paid $3.1B in dividends, and repurchased $1.7B in stock.  In addition in 2009, we issued $2B of convertible debt.  For the year, inventories are down $800M.
Other Items
Amortization of acquisition related intangibles, primarily associated with the Wind River acquisition was $19M, in line with the $20M forecasted.
For the fourth quarter, the number of employees was down approximately 1,000 from the third quarter, to 79,800.  This marks the lowest level since 2003.
Q1 2010 Outlook
The Outlook for the first quarter does not include the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that may be completed after January 13th. The mid-point of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Revenue
Revenue is expected to be $9.7B, plus or minus $400M. The midpoint of this range would be a decrease of 8% from the fourth quarter, which is consistent with the average historical seasonal decrease.
Gross Margin
Gross margin in the first quarter is expected to be 61%, plus or minus two points.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q409 to Q110 (64.7% to 61% +/- 2 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A in the first quarter is expected to be approximately $3B, down 2% from the fourth quarter due to lower profit dependent spending.  Amortization of acquisition related intangibles primarily associated with the Wind River acquisition is expected to be about $20M.  Depreciation is forecasted to be approximately $1.1B.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses from equity investments and interest and other income is expected to be a gain of $20M, lower than the fourth quarter because of gains on investments in the fourth quarter.
2010 Outlook
Gross Margin
Gross margin for the year is expected to be 61%, plus or minus three points.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: 2009 to 2010 (55.7% to 61% +/- 3 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A for the year is expected to be $11.8B plus or minus $100M, 8% higher than 2009 due to an increase in R&D investments and the reclassification of spending for process engineering from cost of sales to R&D, annual salary increases, an increase in revenue dependent spending, and the addition of a full year of Wind River spending.
R&D spending is expected to be approximately $6.2B, up 10% from 2009.
MG&A spending is expected to be approximately $5.6B, up 7% from 2009.
Depreciation is forecasted to be approximately $4.4B +/- $100M.
Other Income Statement Items
The tax rate for 2010 is expected to be 30%.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Capital spending for 2010 is forecasted to be $4.8B plus or minus $100M, $300M higher than 2009 due to the build out of 32nm production capability and capital spending on 22nm.
 
 
 
                                                                                              
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the first quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2009.
 
 
 
                                                                                                 
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of the settlement agreement with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) in the amount of $1.25 billion, a charge incurred in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of the European Commission (EC) fine in the amount of 1.06 billion, or about $1.45 billion, and a charge incurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of an impairment of our investments in Clearwire Corp. in the amount of $938 million. These non-GAAP measures also exclude the associated impacts of the AMD settlement and the Clearwire impairments on our tax provision. The EC fine did not impact the income tax provision because it was not tax deductible.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. Set forth below are reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
In the GAAP results in the earnings release the AMD settlement charge is presented separately within operating expenses for the three and twelve months ended December 26, 2009 and the EC fine charge is presented separately within operating expenses for the twelve months ended December 26, 2009.
 
 
 


