FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100827095950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Intel Corporations announcement regarding an update to forward-looking statements relating to 2010 and the third quarter of 2010 as presented in a press release of August 27, 2010. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Aug. 27, 2010  Intel Corporation today announced that third-quarter revenue will be below the companys previous outlook. The company now expects third-quarter revenue to be $11.0 billion, plus or minus $200 million, compared to the previous expectation of between $11.2 and $12.0 billion. Revenue is being affected by weaker than expected demand for consumer PCs in mature markets. Inventories across the supply chain appear to be in-line with the companys revised expectations.
 
The companys expectation for third-quarter gross margin is now 66 percent, plus or minus a point, lower than the previous expectation of 67 percent, plus or minus a couple of points. The impact of lower volume is being partially offset by slightly higher average selling prices stemming from solid enterprise demand.
 
Equity Investments, Interest and Other is expected to be $175 million, consistent with the companys revised expectation reported on Form 8-K filed July 16.
 
All other expectations for the third quarter remain unchanged. The outlook for the third quarter does not include the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that may be completed after Aug. 26.
 
The company will update fourth-quarter and full-year expectations with its third-quarter earnings report on Oct. 12.
 
Status of Business Outlook
 
During the quarter, Intels corporate representatives may reiterate the Business Outlook during private meetings with investors, investment analysts, the media and others. From the close of business on Sep. 3 until publication of the companys third-quarter earnings release, Intel will observe a Quiet Period during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the companys news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Risk Factors
 
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
 
 
 
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 2010.
 
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at www.intel.com/pressroom and blogs.intel.com.
 30 
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 


