FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100114162343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d)
of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report:  January 14, 2010
(Date of earliest event reported)
INTEL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
1
2
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
4

Exhibit 99.1
Intel Fourth-Quarter Net Income $2.3 Billion, Up 875%
Fourth-Quarter Results
Revenue $10.6 Billion, up $2.3 Billion and 28% Year-over-Year
Record Gross Margin of 65%, up 12 Points Year-over-Year
Operating Income $2.5 Billion, up $958 Million and 62% Year-over-Year
Net Income $2.3 Billion, up $2.0 Billion and 875% Year-over-Year
EPS 40 Cents, up 36 Cents Year-over-Year
Fourth-Quarter Results, Excluding the Settlement Agreement with AMD
Non-GAAP Operating Income $3.7 Billion, up $2.2 Billion and 143% Year-over-Year
Non-GAAP Net Income $3.1 Billion, up $2.3 Billion and 267% Year-over-Year
Non-GAAP EPS 55 Cents, up 40 Cents Year-over-Year
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 14, 2010--Intel Corporation today reported fourth-quarter revenue of $10.6 billion. The company reported operating income of $2.5 billion, net income of $2.3 billion and EPS of 40 cents.
For 2009 Intel posted revenue of $35.1 billion. The company reported full-year operating income of $5.7 billion, net income of $4.4 billion and EPS of 77 cents. The company generated more than $11 billion in cash from operations and paid cash dividends of $3.1 billion.
Intel's strong 2009 results reflect our investment in industry-leading manufacturing and product innovation, said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. This strategy has enabled us to generate unprecedented operating efficiencies while growing our traditional businesses and creating exciting new market opportunities, even in difficult economic times. Our ability to weather this business cycle demonstrates that microprocessors are indispensable in our modern world. Looking forward, we plan to deliver the benefits of computing to an expanding set of products, markets and customers.
Q4 2009 Key Financial Information
PC Client Group revenue up 10 percent, Data Center Group revenue up 21 percent, and Other Intel Architecture group revenue up 22 percent, Intel  Atom microprocessor and chipset revenue up 6 percent, all sequentially.
The average selling price (ASP) for microprocessors was up sequentially.
R&D plus MG&A spending of $3.1 billion (excluding the $1.25 billion settlement agreement with AMD) was higher than the companys expectation.
The net gain of $96 million from equity investments and interest and other was better than the companys expectation.
The effective tax rate was 12 percent, versus the companys revised expectation of 20 percent.
Full-Year 2009 Key Financial Information
PC Client Group revenue down 6 percent, Data Center Group revenue down 2 percent, and Other Intel Architecture group revenue down 21 percent, Intel Atom microprocessor and chipset revenue up 167 percent.
Gross margin of 55.7 percent, flat to 2008.
EC fine of $1.45 billion and AMD settlement agreement of $1.25 billion.
Full-year capital spending $4.5 billion, consistent with the companys expectation.
Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after Jan. 13.
Q1 2010
Revenue: $9.7 billion, plus or minus $400 million.
Gross margin percentage: 61 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.
R&D plus MG&A spending: Approximately $3 billion.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and costs associated with the Wind River acquisition: Approximately $20 million.
Impact of equity investments and interest and other: Gain of approximately $20 million.
Depreciation: Approximately $1.1 billion.
Full-Year 2010
Gross margin percentage: 61 percent, plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A): $11.8 billion, plus or minus $100 million.
R&D spending: Approximately $6.2 billion.
Tax rate: Approximately 30 percent.
Depreciation: Approximately $4.4 billion, plus or minus $100 million.
Capital spending: Expected to be $4.8 billion, plus or minus $100 million.
Status of Business Outlook
During the quarter, Intels corporate representatives may reiterate the Business Outlook during private meetings with investors, investment analysts, the media and others. From the close of business on Feb. 26 until publication of the companys first-quarter earnings release, Intel will observe a Quiet Period during which the Business Outlook disclosed in the companys news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the first quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
Demand could be different from Intel's expectations due to factors including changes in business and economic conditions; customer acceptance of Intels and competitors products; changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers.
Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Additionally, Intel is in the process of transitioning to its next generation of products on 32nm process technology, and there could be execution issues associated with these changes, including product defects and errata along with lower than anticipated manufacturing yieldsRevenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of new Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intels response to such actions; defects or disruptions in the supply of materials or resources; and Intels ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products.
.
The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on changes in revenue levels; product mix and pricing; start-up costs, including costs associated with the new 32nm process technology; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; excess or obsolete inventory; manufacturing yields; changes in unit costs; impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets; the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs; and capacity utilization.
Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, as well as restructuring and asset impairment charges, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products and the level of revenue and profits.
The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.
Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities; gains or losses from equity method investments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
The majority of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in managements plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting restructuring charges as well as gains/losses on equity investments and interest and other.
Intel's results could be impacted by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in countries where Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Intels results could be affected by the timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, impacting our ability to design our products, or requiring other remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended Sept. 26, 2009.
Earnings Webcast
Intel will hold a public webcast at 2:30 p.m. PST today on its Investor Relations Web site at . A webcast replay and MP3 download will also be made available on the site.
www.intc.com
Intel plans to report its earnings for the first quarter of 2010 on Tuesday, April 13, 2010. Following the earnings report, the company plans to publish a commentary by Stacy J. Smith, vice president and chief financial officer, at approximately 1:30 p.m. PST at . A public webcast of Intels earnings conference call will follow at 2:30 p.m. PST at .
www.intc.com/results.cfm
www.intc.com
Intel [NASDAQ: INTC], the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at and blogs.intel.com
www.intel.com/pressroom
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Xeon, Intel Core, and Intel Atom are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


