FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100804101404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release of Intel Corporation (Intel) announcing that on August 4, 2010, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) announced preliminary approval of a settlement agreement between the FTC and Intel that resolves all issues related to this proceeding and that will, if finally approved, result in dismissal of the litigation.  The agreement is subject to a thirty day public comment period, after which the FTC can take actions such as approve a final agreement, reopen settlement negotiations with Intel, or reject the agreement and return the matter to litigation.  A copy of the agreement can be found at www.intel.com/pressroom/legal.  Among other provisions, the agreement includes: a statement that the agreement do es not constitute an admission that Intel has violated the law or that the facts alleged in the complaint are true; provisions with respect to the treatment and extension of certain intellectual property agreements between Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Intel and Nvidia Corp., and Intel and Via Technologies Inc.;  provisions with respect to Intels sales, marketing, pricing and promotional activities for certain Intel microprocessors and chipsets; provisions concerning engineering and design changes to certain Intel products; provisions concerning Intels actions with respect to product roadmaps; disclosure and other terms with respect to Intels compilers and related products; and provisions related to compliance with the agreement.  Intel continues to disagree with the FTCs allegations that Intel has violated any law.  Nevertheless, Intel believes the settlement is appropriate and in the best interests of its stockholders, employees and custom ers.  Based on our current understanding and expectations, we do not believe that any changes in our business practices to comply with the agreement will be material to our financial position, results, or cash flows.
Risk Factors
This Form 8-K and attached press release contain forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Many factors could affect the agreement and Intels actual results, and if the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, Intels results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions.  Intel presently considers the factors set forth below to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Intels published expectations: risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the final approval of the agreement by the FTC and Intel, including the risk that the FTC and Intel do not approve a final agreement, and the FTC resumes the administrative complaint, r esulting in an unfavorable ruling against Intel.  An unfavorable ruling could include an injunction prohibiting Intel from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, impacting Intels ability to design its products, or requiring other remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 2010.
 
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
   
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
SANTA CLARA, Calif., August 4, 2010  Intel and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have reached a tentative settlement in the antitrust suit filed by the Commission December 16.  The FTC sued Intel alleging Intel had violated Section 5 of the FTC Act. The settlement agreement expressly states that Intel does not admit either any violation of law or that the facts alleged in the complaint are true.  The agreement approved today by the Commission is subject to a 30 day public comment period and final approval by the Commission.
 
This agreement provides a framework that will allow us to continue to compete and to provide our customers the best possible products at the best prices, said Doug Melamed, Intel senior vice president and general counsel.  The settlement enables us to put an end to the expense and distraction of the FTC litigation.
 
A copy of the agreement can be found at
www.intel.com/pressroom/legal
 
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at and .
www.intel.com/pressroom
blogs.intel.com
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
CONTACTS:      Chuck Mulloy                                                      
 
408-765-3484
   
    
   
   
 
cmulloy@intel.com
 
 
 
 


