FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100301190150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)  
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release of Intel Corporation (Intel) announcing that Sean Maloney, executive vice president and co-general manager (with David Perlmutter) of the Intel Architecture Group, will be taking a medical leave, and his duties in the interim will be assumed by Mr. Perlmutter. 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., March 1, 2010 Intel Corporation said today that Sean Maloney, executive vice president, is taking a medical leave of absence after suffering a stroke at his home.
Maloneys prognosis for a full recovery is excellent and he is expected to resume all of his business responsibilities after a period of recuperation which is thought to be several months, the company said.   His duties in the interim will be assumed by Dadi Perlmutter, also executive vice president and co-general manager (with Maloney) of the Intel Architecture Group. 
I visited with Sean and his sense of humor and determination to return to work fill the room said CEO Paul Otellini.  We wish him a speedy recovery and look forward to his return. 
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC), the world leader in silicon innovation, develops technologies, products and initiatives to continually advance how people work and live. Additional information about Intel is available at and .
www.intel.com/pressroom
blogs.intel.com
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
CONTACT:             Chuck Mulloy
Media Relations
408-765-3484
cmulloy@intel.com
 
 
 


