FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100507090027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron) has completed its acquisition of Numonyx Holdings BV (Numonyx). Micron issued shares of common stock to Numonyx shareholders, Intel Corporation (Intel), STMicroelectronics, N.V. ("STMicro") and Francisco Partners.  In exchange for Intels investment in Numonyx, Intel received approximately 64.2 million shares of Micron common stock, and issued a $72 million short-term payable. Intel is expected to receive approximately 2.3 million additional shares of Micron common stock in connection with the sale by Numonyx of a facility to STMicro.  These additional shares will be transferred to Intel upon closing of the sale of the facility, which is subject to standard closing conditions and is expected to close in approximately 45 days.  Th e Numonyx senior credit facility that is supported by Intels guarantee is being repaid in connection with the closing of Micron's acquisition of Numonyx.
As a result of the closing of the transaction, Intel now expects the second quarter impact of equity investments and interest and other to be a gain of approximately $180 million as compared to the previous expectation of approximately zero.  Additionally, the tax rate expectation for the second quarter changed from approximately 31% to approximately 32%.  All other expectations are unchanged.
Intels second-quarter Business Outlook was originally published in the companys first-quarter 2010 earnings release, available at intc.com. The company is scheduled to report its second-quarter financial results on July 13.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the second quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Mar. 27, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


