FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100209203706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release of Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron) and Numonyx B.V. (Numonyx) announcing that the companies have signed a definitive agreement under which Micron has agreed to acquire privately held Numonyx in an all-stock transaction valuing Numonyx at approximately $1.27 billion (based on the closing price for Microns common stock on February 9, 2010).  Under the terms of the agreement, Intel Corporation (Intel), ST Microelectronics N.V. and Francisco Partners S.A.R.L., would sell their financial interests in Numonyx (45.1%, 48.6% and 6.3%, respectively) to Micron for 140 million shares of Micron common stock, plus under certain circumstances up to an additional 10 million shares of Micron common stock.  The transaction is subject to regulatory review and other customary closing conditions and is currently anticipated to close within the next three to six months.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Contacts:                Daniel Francisco                                                      Mark Miller
Micron Technology                                                   Numonyx B.V.
208-368-5584                                                             916-380-2090
                                          
dfrancisco@micron.com
mark.miller@numonyx.com
Chuck Mulloy                                                           Tom Ludwig
Intel Corporation                                                      Francisco Partners
408-765-3484                                                           415-418-2930
                                                    
cmulloy@intel.com
ludwig@franciscopartners.com
 Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: MU), and Numonyx Holdings B.V. announced today that the companies have signed a definitive agreement under which Micron has agreed to acquire privately held Numonyx in an all-stock transaction valuing Numonyx at approximately $1.27 billion USD.
BOISE, Idaho, and GENEVA, Feb. 9,
2010
Under the terms of the agreement, Micron will issue 140 million Micron common shares to Numonyx shareholders, Intel Corporation, STMicroelectronics, N.V. and Francisco Partners. Up to 10 million additional Micron common shares will be issued ratably to Numonyx shareholders to the extent the volume weighted average price of Micron shares for the 20 trading days, ending two days prior to the close of the transaction, ranges between $7.00 and $9.00 per share.
The transaction further strengthens Microns position as one of the worlds leading memory companies, with a broad portfolio of DRAM, NAND and NOR memory products and strong expertise in developing and supporting memory system solutions. Micron would also gain increased manufacturing scale globally and access to Numonyxs customer base, providing significant opportunities to increase multi-chip offerings in the embedded and mobile markets.
Acquiring Numonyx brings together two memory leaders and positions Micron to offer the most comprehensive, cost-competitive solutions in the industry to a broad range of customers and end-markets, said Steve Appleton, Chairman and CEO of Micron.
We believe the opportunity for Numonyx to join with Micron will deliver a clear advantage for our customers and our employees, said Brian Harrison, President and CEO of Numonyx. This announcement is a strong testimony to the value of Numonyx technologies, products and people. The result will be a strong company that can best serve our target market segments and customers by delivering enhanced memory solutions, strength and scale. It is good for Numonyx and good for Micron.
Micron currently estimates that the transaction would be accretive to the company on both free-cash flow and non-GAAP earnings beginning fiscal year 2011. In addition, it is anticipated that the Numonyx balance sheet will be debt-free following closing.
The transaction is subject to regulatory review and other customary closing conditions and is currently anticipated to close within three to six months.
Conference Call Details
Micron will host a conference call today at 6:00 p.m. MST to discuss the transaction. The call, audio and slides will be available online at . A webcast replay will be available on the companys web site until Feb. 9, 2011. Information regarding the taped audio replay of the conference call will also be available on beginning at 9:00 p.m. MST.
http://www.micron.com/investors/conference
www.micron.com
About Micron
Micron Technology, Inc., is one of the world's leading providers of advanced semiconductor solutions. Through its worldwide operations, Micron manufactures and markets DRAMs, NAND flash memory, other semiconductor components, and memory modules for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, and mobile products. Microns common stock is traded on the NASDAQ under the MU symbol. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc., visit .
www.micron.com
About Numonyx
Numonyx provides a full complement of integrated NOR, NAND, RAM and Phase Change non-volatile memory technologies and products to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers in the cellular, data and embedded markets. Numonyx is dedicated to providing high density, low power memory technologies and packaging solutions to a global base of customers. Additional information about Numonyx is available at .
www.numonyx.com
 
Micron and the Micron orbit logo are trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the impact of the acquisition on Microns results and operations and the timing of the closing. Actual events or results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the documents Micron files on a consolidated basis from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically Micron's most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for Micron on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements (see Certain Factors). Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
 
 
 
 


