FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20100414114704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Stacy J. Smith, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intel Corporation, for the quarter ended March 27, 2010 and forward-looking statements relating to 2010 and the second quarter of 2010 as posted on the companys investor website, intel.com, on April 13, 2010. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of a settlement agreement with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) in the amount of $1.25 billion. These non-GAAP measures also exclude the associated impacts of the AMD settlement on our tax provision.
Management uses operating income, net income, and earnings per share excluding the AMD settlement and related tax impacts to conduct and evaluate results of the business. We believe that analyzing the trends of the underlying business is aided by the removal of the charge due to the significant impact it has on comparability. Specifically management excludes this charge for purposes of period to period comparisons in our budget, planning and evaluation processes, and the charge was excluded from the calculation of annual incentive payments for employees and, partially eliminated from the calculation of annual incentive payments for executives. The company discloses this non-GAAP information to enable investors who wish to more easily assess the companys performance on the same basis applied by management and to ease comparison on b oth a GAAP and non-GAAP basis to our current period results.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated.  In addition, these non-GAAP measures do not exclude other income and expenses which may not be part of our ongoing expectations of the business.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 of 7
Summary
The investments we are making in leading edge process technology, the strength of our product line, a continued focus on our cost structure, and strong worldwide demand led to our best ever first quarter.  Revenue of $10.3B was a record first quarter, down 3% sequentially; one third of the first quarter average sequential decline.  Year over year revenue was up 44%.  Gross margin of 63.4% was down 1.3 percentage points from the record gross margin set in the fourth quarter. Operating income of $3.4B was up 38% sequentially, and up 433% from a year ago.  Net income of $2.4B was up 7% sequentially, and up 288% from a year ago.
The ramp of our new mobile products led to better than expected average selling prices and better than expected results.  Supply chain inventory levels appear to be healthy after several quarters of replenishment.
Comparing the first quarter to the operational results of the fourth quarter excluding the impact of the $1.25B AMD settlement agreement taken in the fourth quarter:
Revenue
On a year-over-year basis, revenue for the first quarter was up 44%.  On a geographic basis, Europe, Asia Pacific, and Japan performed better than seasonal, with sequential declines smaller than their historical seasonal averages.  The Americas experienced a larger than seasonal revenue decline after a strong fourth quarter.
Intel Atom microarchitecture revenue, including microprocessors and associated chipsets, was $355M, down 19% from the fourth quarter due to inventory reductions after a strong consumer-driven fourth quarter.  Microprocessor average selling prices including Intel Atom processors were up slightly in the first quarter.  Excluding Intel Atom processors, overall microprocessor average selling prices were approximately flat to the fourth quarter.
*   Non-GAAP financial measure. See reconciliation set forth below of non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
Page 2 of 7
The PC Client Group had revenue of $7.7B.  Average selling prices for mobile processors were up based on the strength of the sales of our all new Intel Core brand 2010 products.  Revenue for this group was approximately flat from the fourth quarter as higher mobile average selling prices were offset by seasonal volume declines.  Year over year, PC Client Group revenue was up 43% primarily due to higher unit sales.
The Data Center Group revenue of $1.9B was down 8% from the fourth quarter on seasonally lower server sales.  Year over year, Data Center Group was up 48% due to higher microprocessor unit sales and higher average selling prices.
Gross Margin
Gross margin dollars were $6.5B, 5% lower than the fourth quarter.  Gross margin of 63.4% was 1.3 points lower than the fourth quarter and above our expectations provided in our Outlook.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q409 to Q110 (64.7% to 63.4%, down 1.3 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
The midpoint of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q110 Outlook to Q110 (61% +/- 2 points to 63.4%, up 2.4 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
In a year-over-year comparison, gross margin percent is 18 points higher than Q109.  The increase is due to no excess capacity charges in Q110, higher CPU and chipset sales volume and lower platform** unit cost, and improvements in NAND results.
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A was $3.1B, flat to the fourth quarter spending and $100M higher than the Outlook provided.  Spending was higher than the forecast primarily due to an increase in revenue and profit dependent spending.  Additionally, in the separate category of amortization, spending was $3M, lower than the forecast of $20M.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses on equity investments and interest and other income was a net loss of $2M, worse than the $96M gain in the fourth quarter and worse than the Outlook of a gain of $20M.  Relative to the fourth quarter gain, the first quarter was lower due to an increase in equity method losses and a decrease in gains on sales of equity securities.
The provision for taxes in the first quarter was at a 29% tax rate, in line with the full year previous forecast of 30%.
** CPU and chipset, excluding Intel Atom microprocessors and chipsets
^ CPU excluding Intel Atom microprocessors
 
 
 
Page 3 of 7
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
The strength in our business can be seen in the first quarter results, with cash flow from operations of approximately $4B.  On the balance sheet, total cash investments, comprised of cash, short-term investments, and trading assets ended the quarter at $16.3B, $2.4B higher than the fourth quarter.  During the first quarter, we paid $870M in dividends, purchased $928M in capital spending, and increased total inventories by $51M.
Other Items
For the first quarter, the number of employees was approximately flat from the fourth quarter at 79.9k.
Q2 2010 Outlook
The Outlook for the second quarter does not include the gain expected from the sale of our investment in  Numonyx, nor does it include the effect of any other acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that may be completed after April 12th. The mid-point of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Revenue
Revenue is expected to be $10.2B, plus or minus $400M. The midpoint of this range would be a decrease of 1% from the first quarter, which is slightly above the average seasonal decrease.
Gross Margin
Gross margin in the second quarter is expected to be 64%, plus or minus a couple points.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q110 to Q210 Outlook (63.4% to 64% +/- a couple points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A in the second quarter is expected to be approximately $3.1B, flat to the first quarter.  Depreciation is forecasted to be approximately $1.1B.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses from equity investments and interest and other income is expected to be approximately zero, flat to the first quarter.
** CPU and chipset, excluding Intel Atom microprocessors and chipsets
 
 
 
Page 4 of 7
2010 Outlook
Gross Margin
Gross margin for the year is expected to be 64%, plus or minus a couple points, three points higher than the previous forecast.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: 2010 prior Outlook to 2010 Outlook (61% +/- 3 pts to 64% +/- a couple pts)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A for the year is expected to be $12.4B plus or minus $100M, $600M higher than the prior forecast.  One half of the increase is due to revenue and profit dependent spending.  In addition, we expect incremental investments, primarily in research and development programs, and an increase in marketing spending as a result of the redesign of some customer programs.
R&D spending is expected to be approximately $6.4B, up $200 from the forecast provided in January due to additional investments.
The forecast for depreciation is approximately $4.4B +/- $100M, unchanged from the prior forecast.
Other Income Statement Items
The tax rate for the second, third, and fourth quarter is expected to be 31%, higher than the previous forecast of 30% due to higher profits and a higher portion of profits expected to come from higher tax jurisdictions.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Capital spending for 2010 is forecasted to be $4.8B plus or minus $100M, unchanged from the prior forecast.
 
 
 
Page 5 of 7
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the first quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the corporations expectations.
 
 
 
Page 6 of 7
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2009.
 
 
 
Page 7 of 7
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the charge incurred in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of the settlement agreement with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) in the amount of $1.25 billion. These non-GAAP measures also exclude the associated impacts of the AMD settlement on our tax provision.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. Management believes the non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate for both its own assessment of, and to show the reader, how our performance compares to other periods. Set forth below are reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures
 
 
 


