FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20110126161440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
(e)                 
Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 20, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Intel Corporation (the "Company") approved changes to the terms of performance based restricted stock units ("OSUs") for grants in 2011 to U.S. and non-U.S. management, including executive officers of the Corporation.  OSUs are designed to strike a balance between stock options and RSUs; they are performance-based and present upside potential for superior stock price performance while sharing some attributes of traditional RSUs by offering some value to the recipient, even if the stock price declines over the three-year measurement period.
OSUs vest three years and one month after the grant date. As amended, one OSU converts into the right to receive at least one-half of a share of Intel stock, but no more than two shares of Intel stock, depending on Intels performance relative to the performance of the comparison group. Intels and the comparison group's performance is measured by share price appreciation over the performance period, plus any dividends paid during the performance period (TSR). TSR is defined as the difference between the average closing price of the stock during the 6 months prior to and including the day of grant, and the average closing price of the stock during the 6 months prior to and including the end of the performance period plus dividends earned during the performance period, divided by the average closing price of the stock over the 6 months prior to and including the day of grant. The performance period ends 3 years from the date of grant. The performance of the comparison group is measured by the median 3-year TSR for the Tech 15 companies.  Tech 15 means the fifteen technology companies included in Intels peer group for determining executive compensation, as of the beginning of the performance period, regardless of any subsequent change in its make-up after the beginning of the performance period. Any companies in the Tech 15 which do not have publicly quoted stock prices at the end of the performance period will be factored into the median calculation at their final aggregate TSR for as long as they were publicly quoted during the performance period. The target conversion rate is 1 OSU converts into the right to receive 1 share of Intel stock. If Intels TSR is less than the TSR of the comparison group, then the conversion rate is the target conversion rate decreased by a one-to-two and one-half margin (1:2.5). For example, if Intel underperforms the comparison group by 10 percentage points, the target rate would be decreased by 25% so that 1 OSU converts into the right to receive 0.75 of a share of Intel stock. If Intel outperforms the comparison group, then the conversion rate is the target conversion rate increased by a one-to-five margin (1:5), but in no case will more than two shares be issued for each OSU. For example, if Intel outperforms the comparison group by 5 percentage points, the target rate would be increased by 25% so that 1 OSU converts into the right to receive 1.25 shares of Intel stock.
For OSUs granted in 2009 and 2010, the minimum conversion rate was 33% of a share, with the conversion rate decreasing at a rate of a one-to-two margin if Intel underperformed the peer group and increasing at a rate of one-to-three margin.  In addition, the peer group against which Intels TSR is measured formerly consisted of the Tech 15 and the S&P 100, and Intels TSR was measured against its closing stock price on the date the OSUs were granted. 
OSUs otherwise operate as described in the Corporations Form 8-K filed on April 2, 2009.  The foregoing description is qualified by reference to the terms and conditions of the forms of OSU agreements filed with this Form 8-K.
On January 20, 2011, the Compensation Committee also approved a change to the terms of restricted stock units ("RSUs") granted in 2011 to U.S. and non-U.S management, including executive officers of the Corporation. As amended, RSUs granted to U.S. and non-U.S. employees, including executive officers, will vest quarterly over three years, instead of annually over four years as with past grants.  RSUs otherwise operate as described in the Corporations Form 8-K filed on July 6, 2006.  The foregoing description is qualified by reference to the terms and conditions of the forms of RSU agreements filed with this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
This Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this Agreement), the Notice of Grant delivered herewith (the Notice of Grant) and the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan), as such may be amended from time to time, constitute the entire understanding between you and Intel Corporation (the Corporation) regarding the Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) identified in your Notice of Grant.
 
 
RSUs will vest in substantially equal tranches over twelve quarterly vesting dates, as specified in the Notice of Grant.  Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through each vesting date specified in the Notice of Grant, the RSUs shall vest and be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock, $.001 par value (the Common Stock), specified on the Notice of Grant with respect to such vesting date, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the Nasdaq Stock Market ("NASDAQ") is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the next following NASDAQ business day.  The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan.
 
RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of Grant and this Agreement.  If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the vesting dates set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs will be cancelled.
 
 
Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable following vesting of the RSUs, provided that you have satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 9 of this Agreement and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock.  The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation.  In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any laws of the United States or your country of residence or employment and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporations counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines appropriate to address tax withholding and other administrative matters.
 
 
If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the "Committee"), including any Subcommittee or Authorized Officer (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the vesting of your RSUs may be suspended pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs not vested as of the date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to the RSUs whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs not then vested shall be cancelled on the date of employment termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a divestiture or otherwise.   For purposes of this Section 5, your employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes of this provision if either (a) an the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision.
 
For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty (60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future Intel RSU grants, nor would your transfer from the Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if you die while employed by the Corporation, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment terminates as a result of Disablement, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement.
 
For purposes of this Section 7, Disablement shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, Disablement shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation.
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, Retirement shall mean either Standard Retirement (as defined below) or the Rule of 75 (as defined below).  Upon your Retirement, vesting of your RSUs shall be accelerated to the extent provided in Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) below (but not to the extent provided under both provisions together), whichever results in the greater number of RSUs vesting:
 
 
 
 
RSUs are taxable upon vesting based on the market value in accordance with the tax laws of the country where you are resident or employed.  RSUs are taxable in accordance with the existing or future tax laws of the country where you are resident or employed.  If you are an U.S. citizen or expatriate, you may also be subject to U.S. tax laws.
 
To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation (or the Subsidiary that employs you, if your Subsidiary is involved in the administration of the 2006 Plan) for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, social taxes, applicable national or local taxes, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of granting of a RSU, vesting of a RSU or any sale of shares of the Common Stock (whichever is applicable).
 
The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied.
 
Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued under the RSUs that the Corporation determines has a Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations.  In the event that the Committee provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation.  The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price.  For this purpose, "Market Value" will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs vest.  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
 
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your RSUs, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any transaction pursuant to this Section 9 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs. The Corporation makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
 
 
Your RSUs may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Any attempt to transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation.
 
You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in this Agreement.  RSUs shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs.  RSUs shall remain terminable pursuant to this Agreement at all times until they vest and convert into shares.  As a condition to having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs shall have no value for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation.
 
 
Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 14(e) to have been arbitrary and capricious.
 
 
The 2006 Plan and RSUs may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan.
 
 
You explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the 2006 Plan.
You hereby understand that the Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2006 Plan (Data).  You hereby understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the 2006 Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipients country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  You hereby understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the 2006 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under your RSUs.  You hereby understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the 2006 Plan.  You hereby understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative.  You hereby understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the 2006 Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you hereby understand that you may contact the human resources representative responsible for your country at the local or regional level.
 
 
The grant of RSUs to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.2
 
This Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this Agreement), the Notice of Grant delivered herewith (the Notice of Grant) and the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan), as such may be amended from time to time, constitute the entire understanding between you and Intel Corporation (the Corporation) regarding the Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) identified in your Notice of Grant.
 
 
Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through the vesting date that is three years and one month after the grant date (as specified in the Notice of Grant), then as of the vesting date the RSUs shall vest and be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock, $.001 par value (the Common Stock), determined by multiplying the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant by the conversion rate as set forth below, and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the next following NASDAQ business day.
 
RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of Grant and this Agreement.  If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the vesting date set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents will be cancelled.
 
 
The conversion rate of RSUs into the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock depends on the Corporations Total Stockholder Return (Intel TSR) relative to the Total Stockholder Return of the Tech 15 (Tech 15 TSR) at the end of the Performance Period, as those terms are defined below.  The minimum conversion rate shall be 50% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant and the maximum conversion rate shall be 200% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant.  If the Intel TSR and Tech 15 TSR are within 1 percentage point, the conversion rate shall be 100%.  If the Intel TSR is less than the Tech 15 TSR, the conversion rate shall be 100% minus two and half times the difference in percentage points.  If the Intel TSR is greater than the Tech 15 TSR, the conversion rate shall be 100% plus five times the difference in percentage points.  In the event that the conversion rate results in the right to receive a partial share of Common Stock, the conversion rate shall be rounded down so that the RSUs shall not convert into the right to receive the partial share.
 
By way of illustration, assume the Tech 15 TSR is 100%.  If the Intel TSR equals 100.5%, the conversion rate is 100%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 100% of the Target Number of Shares.  If the Intel TSR is 90%, the difference is 10 percentage points and the conversion rate is 75%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 75% of the Target Number of Shares.  If the Intel TSR is 105%, the difference is 5 percentage points and the conversion rate is 125%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 125% of the Target Number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
TSR of each stock for purposes of the Tech 15 TSR is a percentage (to the third decimal point) derived by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividend equivalents will vest at the same time as their corresponding RSUs and convert into the right to receive shares of Common Stock.  Dividend equivalents will be paid on the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock into which this RSU is converted by determining the sum of the dividends paid or payable on such number of shares of Common Stock with respect to each record date that occurs between the Grant Date and the vesting date specified in the Notice of Grant (without any interest or compounding), divided (to the third decimal point) by the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the last day of the Performance Period.  The quotient derived from the previous sentence shall be rounded down so that dividend equivalents will convert into the right to receive whole shares of Common Stock.
 
 
Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable following the vesting date of the RSUs and dividend equivalents, provided that you have satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 11 of this Agreement and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock.  The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation.  In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any laws of the United States or your country of residence or employment and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporations counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued or credited to your account may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines appropriate to calculate Intel TSR and Tech 15 TSR, for the Committee (as defined below) to certify performance results, to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters.  The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs and dividend equivalents convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan.
 
 
If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the "Committee"), including any Subcommittee or Authorized Officer (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents may be suspended pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs and dividend equivalents not vested as of the date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to the RSUs and dividend equivalents whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs and dividend equivalents not then vested shall be cancelled on the date of employment termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a divestiture or otherwise.   For purposes of this Section 7, your employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes of this provision if either (a) an the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision.
 
For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty (60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future grants of Intel RSUs and dividend equivalents, nor would your transfer from the Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if you die while employed by the Corporation, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment terminates as a result of Disablement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement.
 
For purposes of this Section 9, Disablement shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, Disablement shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment terminates as a result of Retirement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the date of your Retirement.  For purposes of this Section 10, Retirement shall mean:
 
 
 
 
RSUs and dividend equivalents are taxable upon vesting based on the Market Value in accordance with the tax laws of the country where you are resident or employed.  RSUs and dividend equivalents are taxable in accordance with the existing or future tax laws of the country where you are a resident or employed.  If you are an U.S. citizen or expatriate, you may also be subject to U.S. tax laws.
 
To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation (or the Subsidiary that employs you, if your Subsidiary is involved in the administration of the 2006 Plan) for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, social taxes, applicable national or local taxes, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of granting of a RSU, vesting of a RSU or any sale of shares of the Common Stock (whichever is applicable).
 
The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied.
 
Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued under the RSUs and dividend equivalents that the Corporation determines has a Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations.  In the event that the Committee provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs and dividend equivalents, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation.  The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price.  For this purpose, "Market Value" will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs and dividend equivalents vest.  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
 
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your RSUs and dividend equivalents, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any transaction pursuant to this Section 11 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs and dividend equivalents. The Corporation makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs and dividend equivalents or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs and dividend equivalents that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
 
 
Your RSUs and dividend equivalents may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Any attempt to transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs and dividend equivalents other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation.
 
You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in this Agreement.  RSUs and dividend equivalents shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs and dividend equivalents.  RSUs and dividend equivalents shall remain terminable pursuant to this Agreement at all times until they vest and convert into shares.  As a condition to having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents shall have no value for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation.
 
 
Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 16(e) to have been arbitrary and capricious.
 
 
The 2006 Plan and RSUs and dividend equivalents may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan.
 
 
You explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the 2006 Plan.
You hereby understand that the Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2006 Plan (Data).  You hereby understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the 2006 Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipients country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  You hereby understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the 2006 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under your RSUs and dividend equivalents.  You hereby understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the 2006 Plan.  You hereby understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative.  You hereby understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the 2006 Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you hereby understand that you may contact the human resources representative responsible for your country at the local or regional level.
 
 
The grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.3
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS GRANTED ON AND AFTER January 20, 2011 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN  (standard OSU program)
 
 
Unless provided otherwise in the Notice of Grant, these standard terms and conditions ("Standard Terms") apply to Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted to you, a U.S. employee, under the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan").  Your Notice of Grant, these Standard Terms and the 2006 Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and Intel Corporation (the Corporation) regarding the RSUs identified in your Notice of Grant.
 
 
Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through the vesting date that is three years and one month after the grant date (as specified in the Notice of Grant), then as of the vesting date the RSUs shall vest and be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock, $.001 par value (the Common Stock), determined by multiplying the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant by the conversion rate as set forth below, and except as otherwise provided in these Standard Terms.  If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the next following NASDAQ business day.
 
RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of Grant and these Standard Terms.  If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the vesting date set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents will be cancelled.
 
 
The conversion rate of RSUs into the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock depends on the Corporations Total Stockholder Return (Intel TSR) relative to the Total Stockholder Return of the Tech 15 (Tech 15 TSR) at the end of the Performance Period, as those terms are defined below.  The minimum conversion rate shall be 50% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant and the maximum conversion rate shall be 200% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant.  If the Intel TSR and Tech 15 TSR are within 1 percentage point, the conversion rate shall be 100%.  If the Intel TSR is less than the Tech 15 TSR, the conversion rate shall be 100% minus two and half times the difference in percentage points.  If the Intel TSR is greater than the Tech 15 TSR, the conversion rate shall be 100% plus five times the difference in percentage points.  In the event that the conversion rate results in the right to receive a partial share of Common Stock, the conversion rate shall be rounded down so that the RSUs shall not convert into the right to receive the partial share.
 
By way of illustration, assume the Tech 15 TSR is 100%.  If the Intel TSR equals 100.5%, the conversion rate is 100%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 100% of the Target Number of Shares.  If the Intel TSR is 90%, the difference is 10 percentage points and the conversion rate is 75%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 75% of the Target Number of Shares.  If the Intel TSR is 105%, the difference is 5 percentage points and the conversion rate is 125%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 125% of the Target Number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
TSR of each stock for purposes of the Tech 15 TSR is a percentage (to the third decimal point) derived by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividend equivalents will vest at the same time as their corresponding RSUs and convert into the right to receive shares of Common Stock.  Dividend equivalents will be paid on the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock into which this RSU is converted by determining the sum of the dividends paid or payable on such number of shares of Common Stock with respect to each record date that occurs between the Grant Date and the vesting date specified in the Notice of Grant (without any interest or compounding), divided (to the third decimal point) by the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the last day of the Performance Period.  The quotient derived from the previous sentence shall be rounded down so that dividend equivalents will convert into the right to receive whole shares of Common Stock.
 
 
Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable following the vesting date of the RSUs and dividend equivalents, provided that you have satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 11 of these Standard Terms and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock.  The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation.  In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporations counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued or credited to your account may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines appropriate to calculate Intel TSR and Tech 15 TSR, for the Committee (as defined below) to certify performance results, to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters.  The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs and dividend equivalents convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan.
 
 
If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the "Committee"), including any Subcommittee or Authorized Officer (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents may be suspended pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs and dividend equivalents not vested as of the date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to the RSUs and dividend equivalents whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs and dividend equivalents not then vested shall be cancelled on the date of employment termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a divestiture or otherwise.   For purposes of this Section 7, your employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes of this provision if either (a) the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision.
 
For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty (60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future grants of Intel RSUs and dividend equivalents, nor would your transfer from the Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if you die while employed by the Corporation, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment terminates as a result of Disablement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement.
 
For purposes of this Section 9, Disablement shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, Disablement shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment terminates as a result of Retirement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the date of your Retirement.  For purposes of this Section 10, Retirement shall mean:
 
 
 
 
RSUs and dividend equivalents are taxable upon vesting based on the Market Value on the date of vesting.  To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of vesting of a RSU and, if applicable, any sale of shares of the Common Stock.  The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied.
 
Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued under the RSUs and dividend equivalents that the Corporation determines has a Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations.  In the event that the Committee provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs and dividend equivalents, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation.  The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price.  For this purpose, "Market Value" will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs and dividend equivalents vest.  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
 
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your RSUs and dividend equivalents, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any transaction pursuant to this Section 11 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs and dividend equivalents. The Corporation makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs and dividend equivalents or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs and dividend equivalents that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
 
 
Your RSUs and dividend equivalents may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Any attempt to transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs and dividend equivalents other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation.
 
You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in these Standard Terms.  RSUs and dividend equivalents shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs and dividend equivalents.  RSUs and dividend equivalents shall remain terminable pursuant to these Standard Terms at all times until they vest and convert into shares.  As a condition to having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents shall have no value for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Standard Terms or the applicable Notice of Grant, your RSUs and dividend equivalents are subject to reduction by the Corporation if you change your employment classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee.
 
RSUs and dividend equivalents are not part of your employment contract (if any) with the Corporation, your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other remuneration for any purposes, including for purposes of computing severance pay or other termination compensation or indemnity.
 
 
Any question concerning the interpretation of these Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under the Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 15(f) to have been arbitrary and capricious.
 
 
The 2006 Plan and RSUs and dividend equivalents may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan.
 
 
 
The grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.4
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS GRANTED ON AND AFTER JANUARY 20, 2011 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN  (standard MCM-RSU program)
 
 
Unless provided otherwise in the Notice of Grant, these standard terms and conditions ("Standard Terms") apply to Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted to you, a U.S. employee, under the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan").  Your Notice of Grant, these Standard Terms and the 2006 Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and Intel Corporation (the Corporation) regarding the RSUs identified in your Notice of Grant.
 
 
RSUs will vest in substantially equal tranches over twelve quarterly vesting dates, as specified in the Notice of Grant.  Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through each vesting date specified in the Notice of Grant, the RSUs shall vest and be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporations Common Stock, $.001 par value (the Common Stock), specified on the Notice of Grant with respect to such vesting date, except as otherwise provided in these Standard Terms.  If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the Nasdaq Stock Market ("NASDAQ") is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the next following NASDAQ business day.  The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan.
RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of Grant and these Standard Terms.  If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the vesting dates set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs will be cancelled.
 
 
Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable following vesting of the RSUs, provided that you have satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 9 of these Standard Terms and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock.  The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation.  In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporations counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines appropriate to address tax withholding and other administrative matters.
 
 
If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the "Committee"), including any Subcommittee or Authorized Officer (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the vesting of your RSUs may be suspended pending a determination of whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs not vested as of the date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to the RSUs whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment by the Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs not then vested shall be cancelled on the date of employment termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a divestiture or otherwise.   For purposes of this Section 5, your employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes of this provision if either (a) the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a Subsidiary for purposes of this provision.
 
For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty (60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future Intel RSU grants, nor would your transfer from the Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if you die while employed by the Corporation, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested.
 
 
Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment terminates as a result of Disablement, your RSUs will become one hundred percent (100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement.
 
For purposes of this Section 7, Disablement shall be determined in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, Disablement shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation.
 
 
For purposes of these Standard Terms, Retirement shall mean either Standard Retirement (as defined below) or the Rule of 75 (as defined below).  Upon your Retirement, vesting of your RSUs shall be accelerated to the extent provided in Section 8(a) or Section 8(b) below (but not to the extent provided under both provisions together), whichever results in the greater number of RSUs vesting:
 
 
 
 
RSUs are taxable upon vesting based on the market value on the date of vesting.  To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of vesting of a RSU and, if applicable, any sale of shares of the Common Stock.  The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied.
 
Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued under the RSUs that the Corporation determines has a Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations.  In the event that the Committee provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation.  The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price.  For this purpose, "Market Value" will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs vest.  The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty.
 
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your RSUs, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any transaction pursuant to this Section 9 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the RSUs. The Corporation makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
 
 
Your RSUs may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Any attempt to transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation.
 
You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in these Standard Terms.  RSUs shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs.  RSUs shall remain terminable pursuant to these Standard Terms at all times until they vest and convert into shares.  As a condition to having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs shall have no value for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Standard Terms or the applicable Notice of Grant, your RSUs are subject to reduction by the Corporation if you change your employment classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee.
 
RSUs are not part of your employment contract (if any) with the Corporation, your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other remuneration for any purposes, including for purposes of computing severance pay or other termination compensation or indemnity.
 
 
Any question concerning the interpretation of these Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under the Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 13(f) to have been arbitrary and capricious.
 
 
The 2006 Plan and RSUs may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan.
 
 
 
The grant of RSUs to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given amount.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


