FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20110228164158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01                      Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
 
On February 28, 2011, Intel Corporation completed its acquisition of McAfee, Inc., which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel. Each share of McAfee common stock was converted into the right to receive $48.00 in cash (other than treasury shares, shares owned by Intel or its subsidiaries, and shares for which appraisal rights were properly sought). Each share of McAfee common stock subject to restricted stock awards, vested restricted stock unit awards and vested performance stock unit awards were also converted into the right to receive $48.00 in cash, except as provided in the merger agreement. In general, options to acquire McAfee common stock, unvested restricted stock units and unvested performance units were converted into options, restricted stock units and performance units, as applicable, denominated in shares of Intel common stock based on formulas set forth in the merger agreement. Intel will fund the merger, valued at approximately $7.7 billion, through its cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments. 
The summary above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the merger agreement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to Intels Form 8-K filed on August 19, 2010.
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 28, 2011, Intel issued a press release regarding the completion of the acquisition of McAfee. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Intel Corporation
2200 Mission College Blvd.
Santa Clara, CA 95054-1549
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., February 28, 2011  Intel Corporation today announced the acquisition of , Inc. is complete.
McAfee
McAfee will continue developing and selling security products and services under its own brand. Intel and McAfee plan to bring the first fruits of their strategic partnership to market later this year, with the intent of tackling security and the pervasive nature of computing threats in an entirely new way.
Intel and McAfee believe todays approach to security does not adequately address the billions of new Internet-ready devices, including PCs, mobile and wireless devices, TVs, cars, medical devices and ATM machines. With the surge in cyber threats, providing protection to a diverse online world requires a fundamentally new approach involving software, hardware and services. Together the two companies will work to help people more securely take full advantage of the potential of computing and connectivity.
As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel, McAfee reports into Intels Software and Services Group. The group is managed by Rene James, Intel senior vice president, and general manager. McAfees president, Dave DeWalt, will report to James.
 In the past, energy-efficient performance and Internet connectivity have defined computing requirements, said James. Intel has added security as a third pillar of what people demand from their experiences with personal computers and other connected devices.  Security challenges put the future potential of computing at risk. The acquisition of McAfee adds not only world-leading security products and technologies to Intels computing portfolio, but also brings incredibly talented people focused on delivering products and services that help make connecting to the mobile Internet safer and more secure.
Intels updated Business Outlook for Q1 2011 and full year 2011, published on January 31, 2011, reflected the impact of the closing of the McAfee transaction. The press release, including the Outlook and related risk factors, can be found at .
http://sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/50863/000005086311000020/exh991.htm
Risk Factors
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements concerning McAfees development and sale of products and services under its brand and the timing of products to market under the strategic partnership, that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current
 
 
 
Intel/Page 2
expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 25, 2010.
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at and .
www.intel.com/pressroom
blogs.intel.com
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
McAfee, McAfee Labs and Global Threat Intelligence are registered trademarks or trademarks of McAfee, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Other marks and brands may be claimed as the property of others.  2011 McAfee, Inc. All rights reserved.
 
 
 


