FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20120417161417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4c))
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Intel Reports First-Quarter Revenue of $12.9 Billion
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 17, 2012--Intel Corporation today reported quarterly revenue of $12.9 billion, operating income of $3.8 billion, net income of $2.7 billion and EPS of $0.53. The company generated approximately $3.0 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.0 billion and used $1.5 billion to repurchase stock.
The first quarter was a solid start to whats expected to be another growth year for Intel, said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. In the second quarter well see the first Intel-based smartphones in the market, ship products based on 22nm tri-gate technology in high volume, and accelerate the ramp of our best server product ever, providing a tremendous foundation for growth in 2012 and beyond.
Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other business combinations that may be completed after April 17.
Q2 2012 (GAAP, unless otherwise stated)
Revenue: $13.6 billion, plus or minus $500 million.
Gross margin percentage: 62 percent and 63 percent Non-GAAP (excluding amortization of acquisition-related intangibles), both plus or minus a couple of percentage points.
R&D plus MG&A spending: approximately $4.6 billion.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles: approximately $80 million.
Impact of equity investments and interest and other: loss of approximately $20 million.
Depreciation: approximately $1.6 billion.
Full-Year 2012 (GAAP, unless otherwise stated)
Gross margin percentage: 64 percent and 65 percent Non-GAAP (excluding amortization of acquisition-related intangibles), both plus or minus a few percentage points, unchanged.
Spending (R&D plus MG&A): $18.3 billion, plus or minus $200 million, unchanged.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles: approximately $300 million, unchanged.
Depreciation: $6.4 billion, plus or minus $100 million, down $100 million from prior expectations.
Tax Rate: approximately 28 percent down from prior expectations of 29 percent.
Full-year capital spending: $12.5 billion, plus or minus $400 million, unchanged.
For additional information regarding Intels results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at: .
www.intc.com/results.cfm
Status of Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business June 15 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on April 24. Intels Quiet Period will start from the close of business on June 15 until publication of the companys second-quarter earnings release, scheduled for July 17. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the companys news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Q1 Key Financial Information (GAAP)
PC Client Group revenue of $8.5 billion, down 7 percent sequentially.
Data Center Group revenue of $2.5 billion, down 10 percent sequentially.
Other Intel architecture group revenue of $1.1 billion, down 2 percent sequentially.
The first quarter of 2012 includes full-quarter revenue contributions from last years McAfee and Infineon Wireless Solutions acquisitions of $935 million.
The first quarter of 2012 had 13 weeks while the first quarter of 2011 had 14 weeks.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the second quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, may, will, should and their variations identify forward-looking statements. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the companys expectations.
Demand could be different from Intel's expectations due to factors including changes in business and economic conditions, including supply constraints and other disruptions affecting customers; customer acceptance of Intels and competitors products; changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and changes in the level of inventory at customers. Uncertainty in global economic and financial conditions poses a risk that consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to negative financial events, which could negatively affect product demand and other related matters.
Intel operates in intensely competitive industries that are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term and product demand that is highly variable and difficult to forecast. Revenue and the gross margin percentage are affected by the timing of Intel product introductions and the demand for and market acceptance of Intel's products; actions taken by Intel's competitors, including product offerings and introductions, marketing programs and pricing pressures and Intels response to such actions; and Intels ability to respond quickly to technological developments and to incorporate new features into its products.
Intel is in the process of transitioning to its next generation of products on 22nm process technology, and there could be execution and timing issues associated with these changes, including products defects and errata and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.
The gross margin percentage could vary significantly from expectations based on capacity utilization; variations in inventory valuation, including variations related to the timing of qualifying products for sale; changes in revenue levels; segment product mix; the timing and execution of the manufacturing ramp and associated costs; start-up costs; excess or obsolete inventory; changes in unit costs; defects or disruptions in the supply of materials or resources; product manufacturing quality/yields; and impairments of long-lived assets, including manufacturing, assembly/test and intangible assets.
The tax rate expectation is based on current tax law and current expected income. The tax rate may be affected by the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimates of credits, benefits and deductions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including payment of interest and penalties; and the ability to realize deferred tax assets.
Gains or losses from equity securities and interest and other could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses on the sale, exchange, change in the fair value or impairments of debt and equity investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments.
The majority of Intels non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in managements plans with respect to Intels investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting restructuring charges as well as gains/losses on equity investments and interest and other.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse economic, social, political and physical/infrastructure conditions in countries where Intel, its customers or its suppliers operate, including military conflict and other security risks, natural disasters, infrastructure disruptions, health concerns and fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Expenses, particularly certain marketing and compensation expenses, as well as restructuring and asset impairment charges, vary depending on the level of demand for Intel's products and the level of revenue and profits.
Intels results could be affected by the timing of closing of acquisitions and divestitures.
Intel's results could be affected by adverse effects associated with product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications), and by litigation or regulatory matters involving intellectual property, stockholder, consumer, antitrust, disclosure and other issues, such as the litigation and regulatory matters described in Intel's SEC reports. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting Intel from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, impacting Intels ability to design its products, or requiring other remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
Earnings Webcast
Intel will hold a public webcast at 2 p.m. PDT today on its Investor Relations website at . A webcast replay and MP3 download will also be available on the site.
www.intc.com
Intel plans to report its earnings for the second quarter of 2012 on July 17. Immediately following the earnings report, the company plans to publish a commentary by Stacy J. Smith, senior vice president and chief financial officer, at . A public webcast of Intels earnings conference call will follow at 2 p.m. PDT at .
www.intc.com/results.cfm
www.intc.com
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com.
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.


