FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20120718095021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Stacy J. Smith, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intel Corporation for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and forward-looking statements relating to 2012 and the third quarter of 2012 as posted on the companys investor website, intc.com, on July 17, 2012. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition to disclosing financial results in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this document contains non-GAAP financial measures for gross margin, gross margin percentage, operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share. This document also provides the companys forward-looking outlook for non-GAAP gross margin percentage.  A reconciliation of the adjustments to our GAAP forward-looking outlook, GAAP results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, and prior period GAAP results is included in the tables that are part of Exhibit 99.1.
Supplemental Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP Results, included in Exhibit 99.1, includes an explanation of the ways management uses these non-GAAP measures and the reasons why management views these measures provide useful information for investors. However, non-GAAP financial information has limitations and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 of 9
 
 
 
 
Summary
The second quarter of 2012 played out largely as expected. Revenue of $13.5B was up 5% from $12.9B in the first quarter, and was slightly lower than expectations due to softness in our NAND memory business.   Demand trends for the core business played out as expected with the enterprise and emerging market segments contributing to the revenue growth offset by weakness in the mature market consumer segment. Gross margin of 63.4% was better than the midpoint of our guidance on lower costs and down slightly from the first quarter. Operating income of $3.8B up 1% from the first quarter  and was 28% of revenue. Net income of $2.8B and earnings per share of $0.54 were up 3% from $2.7B and 2% from $0.53 respectively from the first quarter.
On a GAAP basis, the second quarter 2012 results when compared to the second quarter from a year ago were the following:
As a result of the acquisitions of McAfee, Inc. and the Infineon wireless division in the first quarter of 2011, we continue to provide Non-GAAP financial information in addition to GAAP to provide additional visibility into operational results of the company. The information below excludes the impact of amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, and the related income tax effect, from both second quarter 2012 and second quarter 2011 results.
Non-GAAP* Financial Comparison
Except as otherwise noted, the remainder of this document presents results and comparables on a GAAP basis.
*See the explanation of non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure on pages 8-9
**PC and Server CPU and chipset, excluding IntelAtom microprocessors and chipsets
 
 
Page 2 of 9
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2012
Revenue
Revenue of $13.5B was up 5% sequentially and 4% from a year ago. When compared to the first quarter of 2012, platform** volume was up 3% with platform** average selling prices up 1%. Microprocessor inventory levels across the worldwide PC supply chain are healthy but are being managed below historical averages based on macroeconomic uncertainty and ahead of the Windows 8 operating system release.
Intel Architecture Group second quarter revenue of $12.6B was up 5% sequentially and up 4% year over year:
 
The Software and Services Group had revenue of $586M, up 3% from the first quarter. Year over year, the Software and Services Group revenue was up 15%.
Gross Margin
Gross margin dollars were $8.6B, up 3% compared to the first quarter.  Gross margin of 63.4% was 0.7 point lower than the first quarter and up 1.4 point when compared to the midpoint of the Outlook provided on April 17th.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q112 to Q212 (64.0% to 63.4%, down 0.7 point)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q212 Outlook  to Q212 (62% +/- couple points to 63.4%, up 1.4 points)
[note: point attributions are approximate]
 
 
 
 
**PC and Server CPU and chipset, excluding IntelAtom microprocessors and chipsets
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 9
 
 
 
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q211 to Q212 (60.6% to 63.4%, up 2.7 points)
When comparing to the second quarter from a year ago, gross margin was up 2.7 points. Lower start up costs, lower inventory write offs and higher platform volume were partially offset by higher platform unit costs.
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A was $4.6B, up 6% from the first quarter and in line with the Outlook provided in April. The increase from the first quarter is primarily driven by the start of our Intel Ultrabook systems marketing campaign and annual employee salary increases. R&D and MG&A as a percentage of revenue was 34.4%, up slightly from the first quarter.  Depreciation was $1.6B, in line with our Outlook.
Amortization of acquisition related intangibles was $78M.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses on equity investments and interest and other income was a net gain of $102M, higher than the $4M gain in the first quarter and up from our Outlook of a net loss of $20M. Relative to our Outlook and the first quarter, the second quarter gains were higher on equity investment gains and an insurance claim related to the floods in Thailand.
The provision for taxes in the second quarter was at a 28% tax rate, in line with our Outlook.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Cash flow from operations in the second quarter was approximately $4.7B. On the balance sheet, total cash investments^^ ended the quarter at $13.6B, approximately flat to the first quarter.  During the second quarter, we paid approximately $1.1B in dividends, purchased $2.7B in capital assets, and repurchased $1.1B in stock. Total inventories were up $415M, with the increase driven by the ramp of Ivy Bridge, partially offset by the reduction in inventory of older generation products.
Other Items
The total number of employees was up 2K from the first quarter to 103K.
Diluted shares outstanding increased by 7M shares as the impact of share repurchases were slightly more than offset by option exercises and other share based compensation. Diluted shares outstanding decreased by 242M shares from the second quarter a year ago.
^^ Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable debt instruments included in 
trading assets
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 9
Q3 2012 Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after July 17.The midpoint of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Revenue
Revenue is expected to be $14.3B, plus or minus $500M in the third quarter. The midpoint of this range would be an increase of 6% from the second quarter. This increase is on the lower end of the historical seasonal range for the third quarter, reflecting our view that global macroeconomic weakness impacts sales of personal computers and customers maintain lower inventory levels as a result of macroeconomic uncertainty and ahead of the Windows 8 operating system release.
Gross Margin
Gross margin in the third quarter is expected to be 63%, plus or minus a couple points, approximately flat to the second quarter.
Gross Margin Reconciliation: Q212 to Q312 Outlook (63.4% to 63% +/- a couple points)
All items between  pt. to a 1pt impact
 
On a Non-GAAP* basis, excluding the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, Q312 gross margin is forecasted to be approximately 64% plus or minus a couple points.
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A in the third quarter is expected to be approximately $4.6B, flat from $4.6B in the second quarter.
Depreciation is forecasted to be approximately $1.6B, flat from the second quarter.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles is forecasted to be approximately $80M.
Other Income Statement Items
Gains and losses from equity investments and interest and other income are expected to be approximately zero, compared to a net gain of $102M in the second quarter.
*See the explanation of non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure on pages 8-9
**PC and Server CPU and chipset, excluding IntelAtom microprocessors and chipsets
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 9
2012 Outlook
Intels Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after July 17.The midpoint of the forecast ranges will be referred to when making comparisons to specific periods.
Revenue
Revenue for the year is now expected to grow in the range of 3% to 5% over full year 2011.
Gross Margin
Gross margin for the year is still expected to be 64%, plus or minus a couple points.  On Non-GAAP* basis, excluding the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, the gross margin forecast for the year is expected to be 65% plus or minus a couple points.
Spending
Spending for R&D and MG&A for the year is now expected to be $18.2B, plus or minus $200M, down $100M from prior expectations.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles is still expected to be approximately $300M for 2012.
Depreciation for the year is now forecasted to be approximately $6.3B plus or minus $100M, down $100M from prior expectations.
Other Income Statement Items
The tax rate for each of the remaining quarters of 2012 is still expected to be 28%.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items
Capital spending for 2012 is still expected to be $12.5B plus or minus $400M.
*See the explanation of non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure on pages 8-9
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, may, will, should and their variations identify forward-looking statements. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the companys expectations.
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the companys most recent Form 10-Q and report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Atom, and Ultrabook are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9
 
 
 
 
 
 


