FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20120209162212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release of Intel Corporation (Intel) announcing that Intel and the New York Attorney General have agreed to terminate the lawsuit alleging violation of U.S. and state antitrust laws that was filed by the New York Attorney General in November 2009.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. Feb. 9, 2012  Intel Corporation and the New York Attorney General have agreed to terminate the lawsuit alleging violation of U.S. and state antitrust laws that was filed by the New York Attorney General in November 2009.
The agreement, which follows a December 2011 court ruling that greatly reduced the scope of the New York Attorney Generals lawsuit, expressly states that Intel does not admit either any violation of law or that the allegations in the complaint are true, and it calls for no changes to the way Intel does business. The agreement includes a payment of $6.5 million from Intel that is intended only to cover some of the costs incurred by the New York Attorney General in the litigation.
Following recent court rulings in Intels favor that significantly and appropriately narrowed the scope of this case, we were able to reach an agreement with New York to bring to an end what remained of the case. We have always said that Intels business practices are lawful, pro-competitive and beneficial to consumers, and we are pleased this matter has been resolved, said Doug Melamed, senior vice president and general counsel at Intel.
A copy of the agreement is available at www.intel.com/pressroom/legal/nyag.htm.
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at and .
newsroom.intel.com
blogs.intel.com
 
Intel, Intel Core, Atom, Ultrabook, the Intel logo and Ultrabook are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.  * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 
 
 
 


