FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20120120110221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 20, 2012, Brian M. Krzanich was appointed chief operating officer (COO). Mr. Krzanich, age 51, joined Intel in 1982 and has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Manufacturing and Supply Chain since January 2010. In this role he was responsible for all aspects of Intel's factories and manufacturing operations worldwide.  He became a corporate vice president in May 2006 serving as Vice President and General Manager of Assembly and Test, where he was responsible for the implementation of the 0.13-micron logic process technology across Intel's global factory network.  As COO, Mr. Krzanich will continue to oversee manufacturing and will also be responsible for internal information technology and human resources. Mr. Krzanich received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from San Jose State University in 1982.
Also as of January 20, 2012, Andy Bryant will no longer serve as Chief Administrative Officer, a position Mr. Bryant has held since October 2007.  Mr. Bryant will continue to serve as Vice Chairman of the Board.  The press release announcing these changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Jan. 20, 2012  Intel Corporation announced a number of executive promotions and rotations today that recognize outstanding performance and assign new responsibilities as part of Intel's commitment to management development.
As previously announced by Intels board of directors, Andy Bryant will move from vice chairman of the board to full-time executive chairman at the companys Annual Stockholders Meeting in May. In anticipation of that change, Intel is promoting two senior executives, one of whom will take on much of Bryants prior responsibilities.
First, the company has promoted Brian Krzanich to chief operating officer, reporting to Paul Otellini, president and CEO. Krzanich had previously been a senior vice president in charge of Intels worldwide manufacturing. In his new role, Krzanich will continue to oversee manufacturing and also take on responsibility for internal IT and human resources, functions that previously reported into Bryant.
Secondly, in recognition of his outstanding work in developing the Intel Architecture product portfolio, Dadi Perlmutter is being promoted to chief product officer. Perlmutter will continue to lead the Intel Architecture Group and continue reporting to Otellini.
Stacy Smith, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will now report directly to Otellini. He had previously reported to Bryant.
Bill Holt, senior vice president and head of Technology Development, will also now report directly to Otellini. He, too, had reported to Bryant. Holt and Krzanich will continue to co-manage the Technology and Manufacturing Group, allowing Intel to maintain the critical, close collaboration between semiconductor process technology development and manufacturing.
Kirk Skaugen, Intel vice president and head of Intels data center business, will become the new head of the PC Client Group (PCCG), succeeding Intel Vice President Mooly Eden, and reporting to Perlmutter. After 9 years in the United States, Eden is moving back to Israel at his request and will assume the position of president and general manager, Intel Israel, reporting to Perlmutter. While in the United States, Eden led Intels mobile PC business before being promoted to run PCCG, Intels largest product group, in 2009.
Diane Bryant, Intel vice president and CIO, will lead the data center business and succeed Skaugen as general manager of that group. She will report to Perlmutter.
Kim Stevenson, vice president of IT Global Operations and Services, will succeed Diane Bryant as CIO and report to Krzanich
The organization changes will become effective over the next 30 days, and are designed to create a series of smooth management transitions.
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at and .
newsroom.intel.com
blogs.intel.com
 
 
 
Intel/Page 2 
Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries. 
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


