FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20120907080649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Intel Corporations announcement regarding an update to forward looking statements relating to 2012 and the third quarter of 2012, as presented in a press release of September 7, 2012.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Intel Corporation                                                                                                           
2200 Mission College Blvd.                                                                                                                                
Santa Clara, CA 95054-1549
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Sept. 7, 2012  Intel Corporation today announced that third-quarter revenue is expected to be below the companys previous outlook as a result of weaker than expected demand in a challenging macroeconomic environment. The company now expects third-quarter revenue to be $13.2 billion, plus or minus $300 million, compared to the previous expectation of $13.8 billion to $14.8 billion.
Relative to the prior forecast, the company is seeing customers reducing inventory in the supply chain versus the normal growth in third-quarter inventory; softness in the enterprise PC market segment; and slowing emerging market demand. The data center business is meeting expectations.
The companys expectation for third-quarter gross margin is now 62 percent, plus or minus one percentage point; lower than the previous expectation of 63 percent, plus or minus a couple of percentage points.
Expectations for R&D and MG&A spending and depreciation in the third quarter remain unchanged.
Full-year capital spending is expected to be below the low-end of the companys previous outlook of $12.1 billion to $12.9 billion, as the company accelerates the re-use of existing equipment to the 14nm node.
The outlook for the third quarter does not include the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that may be completed after Sept. 7. All other quarterly and full-year expectations have been withdrawn and will be updated with the companys third-quarter earnings report on Oct. 16.
Status of Business Outlook
Intels Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business Sept. 14 unless earlier updated.  Intels Quiet Period will start from the close of business on Sept. 14 until publication of the companys third-quarter earnings release, scheduled for Oct. 16. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the companys news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company.
Risk Factors
The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, may, will, should and their variations identify forward-looking
 
 
 
Intel/Page 2
 
statements. Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements. Many factors could affect Intels actual results, and variances from Intels current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the companys expectations.
A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intels results is included in Intels SEC filings, including the companys most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K.
 
 
 
Intel/Page 3
Conference Call Schedule
There is no conference call scheduled in association with this announcement.
Intel plans to report its earnings for the third quarter of 2012 on Oct. 16. Immediately following the earnings report, the company plans to publish a commentary by Stacy J. Smith, senior vice president and chief financial officer, at .  A public webcast of Intels earnings conference call will follow at 2 p.m. PDT at .
www.intc.com/results.cfm
www.intc.com
About Intel
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the worlds computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at and . 
newsroom.intel.com
blogs.intel.com
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
*Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 
 
 


