FILE:INTC/INTC-8K-20121204093327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
              
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is a press release describing a proposed public offering of notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
    
Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Dec.4, 2012  Intel Corporation today announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, senior unsecured notes under an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offering and the final terms of the notes, including principal amount, interest rate and maturity will depend on market and other conditions at the time of pricing.
 
Intel intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes and to repurchase shares of its common stock under the company's existing share repurchase authorization.
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering.
 
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. The offering of securities may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus. Copies of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus can be obtained from:
 
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.  Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, whether or not Intel will offer the notes or consummate the offering, the anticipated terms of the notes and the offering, and the anticipated use of the proceeds of the offering.  Intel does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
 
Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) is a world leader in computing innovation. The company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the foundation for the world's computing devices. Additional information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com.
 
Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.
 


