FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20030523124011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.    .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.    .
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Pursuant to the interim guidance provided in Release No. 33-8216, the following information is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
On May 22, 2003, the registrant publicly announced financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended April 26, 2003. For further information, please refer to the press release and conference call remarks attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, which are incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $447,326,000 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 ended April 26, an increase of 12% from $399,849,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Net income increased 22% to $33,597,000 or $0.49 per diluted share, from $27,563,000 or $0.40 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002.
St. Paul, MNMay 22, 2003
 
For full-year 2003, consolidated sales totaled $1,656,956,000, an increase of 17% from $1,415,515,000 in fiscal 2002. During the year, Patterson successfully integrated two acquisitions into its North American dental operation: Thompson Dental Company (acquired in early April 2002) and Distribution Quebec Dentaire, Inc. (acquired in July 2002). As discussed throughout the past year, the size of the Thompson acquisition caused it to account for a higher proportion of Patterson's dental sales in fiscal 2003 in comparison to the historic contribution from acquisitions of approximately two to three percentage points of annual sales growth. However, excluding the impact of acquisitions, North American dental sales increased approximately 9% to 10% in fiscal 2003, which compares favorably with the historic internal growth rate of this operation. Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 20% in the fourth quarter to $53,307,000. Webster was acquired in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Assuming this unit had been acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2002, Webster's sales increased 10% in fiscal 2003 to $185,794,000.
 
Income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change for goodwill was $116,320,000 or $1.70 per diluted share in fiscal 2003, up 22% from $95,290,000 or $1.40 per diluted share in fiscal 2002. After giving effect to the accounting change, which resulted in a one-time, non-cash benefit of $0.05 per diluted share, net income came to $1.75 in fiscal 2003.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "Patterson's fourth quarter and full-year operating results are extremely encouraging, reflecting the vitality of the dental and veterinary supply markets as well as our ability to continue gaining share in each. Strong performances posted by our dental and veterinary supply operations generated fourth quarter earnings in excess of our previously-reported financial guidance. Sales of dental equipment grew strongly during this period, paced by robust demand for such new-technology products as the CEREC
3 dental restorative system and digital radiography. The strong sales growth of these product lines clearly indicates that Patterson is exceptionally well-positioned to meet the expanding need among dentists for equipment that will strengthen office productivity, improve clinical outcomes and enhance the profitability of their practices. Sales of software, which plays a key role in the turnkey digital solutions that Patterson provides dental offices, also were up from the year-earlier level, reflecting the increasingly positive impact of effective sales and marketing initiatives started earlier in the year. Consumable dental supplies achieved targeted sales levels in the fourth quarter, while our Canadian dental operation posted significantly improved results."
 
Frechette added: "We continue to believe that the sustainable, long-term growth rate of our dental operation is four percentage points in excess of the market's 7% to 9% estimated rate of growth.
 
Encouraged by the ongoing strength of our Webster veterinary supply unit, we also believe Webster can continue to grow faster than the estimated 6% to 7% growth rate of the U.S. companion-pet veterinary supply market. We remain confident that both operations will continue to gain share in their respective markets, which makes us very optimistic about Patterson's near and longer-term prospects."
 
Fourth Quarter Financial Review
The following review of revenue categories includes the impact of dental acquisitions:
 
Fiscal 2004 Guidance
For full-year fiscal 2004, Patterson is forecasting earnings of $2.00 to $2.02 per diluted share.
Sales for the coming year are expected to be four percentage points in excess of the 7% to 9% estimated annual growth rate of the North American dental supply market. For the first quarter of fiscal 2004 ending July 26, Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.42 to $0.44 per diluted share. The Company believes first quarter sales growth will be at the lower end of the estimated annual range, reflecting the absence of significant incremental revenues from acquisitions as it begins fiscal 2004.
 
About Patterson Dental Company
Patterson Dental Company is a value-added distributor serving the North American dental supply and companion-pet veterinarian supply markets.
 
Patterson Dental Supply
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, clinical and laboratory equipment, and value-added services to dentists, dental laboratories, institutions and other healthcare providers throughout North America. Patterson Dental Supply, which is growing significantly faster than its market, has the largest direct sales force in the industry, totaling over 1,200 sales representatives and equipment/software specialists serving the United States and Canada.
 
Webster Veterinary Supply
Webster is the leading distributor of veterinary supplies to companion-pet veterinary clinics in the eastern United States and the third largest nationally. One of the most respected names in the veterinary supply industry, Webster is a value-added, full-service distributor of consumable supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental and veterinary supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and
 
the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; and risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Peter L. Frechette
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
strengthen office productivity, improve clinical outcomes and enhance the profitability of their practices.
 
Now, Steve Armstrong will review various aspects of our fourth quarter operating results.
 
R. Stephen Armstrong
Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Pete.
business also reduced its inventories year-over-year as the stocking inventories of ProHeart6 moved through that operation.
Thank you. Now, I will turn the conference call back to the operator, who will poll you for your questions.


