FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20031120062120.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 20, 2003, the registrant publicly announced financial results for the second quarter and six months ended October 25, 2003. For further information, please refer to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
Patterson Dental Company (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $477,510,000 for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 ended October 25, an increase of 19% from $400,821,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Net income increased 27% to $34,886,000 or $0.51 per diluted share, from $27,545,000 or $0.40 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2003. Consolidated earnings for this period included a contribution of approximately $0.04 per diluted share from AbilityOne Products Corp., which was acquired on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne's contribution was consistent with previously-issued financial guidance.
St. Paul, MNNovember 20, 2003
 
Sales of the Patterson Dental Supply unit increased 10% to $392,657,000 in this year's second quarter. Substantially all of this growth was internally generated.
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 17% in this year's second quarter to $53,011,000. Webster's sales benefited from a temporary pharmaceutical distribution agreement that was converted to an agency arrangement during the quarter. As a result of this conversion, Webster's third quarter revenue growth is expected to be more in line with overall market growth. Sales of the AbilityOne unit were in line with internal forecasts for the period from the date of closing of this acquisition to the quarter-end.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "We are very pleased with Patterson's second quarter operating results. In the dental market, Patterson's sales and profitability are continuing to benefit from our position as North America's leading provider of new-technology dental equipment, software and turnkey digital solutions, which are enabling dentists to significantly strengthen the productivity of their practices. Our Webster unit has opened new sales territories in the states of Washington and Ohio, and the initial sales generated by this geographic expansion are encouraging. Finally, AbilityOne, the newest member of the Patterson family of valued-added distributors, fully met our sales and profit expectations for this period. As the leading, full-service distributor of products for the global physical and occupational therapy markets, AbilityOne is a logical extension of our specialty distribution strategy. All in all, we are optimistic about Patterson's prospects for the balance of fiscal 2004, based on the vitality of our served markets and the effectiveness of our strategies aimed at meeting the needs of our customers."
 
Patterson said it expects to complete a permanent financing package, totaling $650 million, later in November that will replace in part the $500 million bridge facility that was used to finance the $575 million purchase price of AbilityOne. The remaining debt capacity will be used for general corporate purposes, if drawn down.
 
Third Quarter Guidance
For the third quarter of fiscal 2004 ending January 24, Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.57 to $0.59 per diluted share, which includes an estimated full-quarter contribution from AbilityOne of $0.06 to $0.07 per diluted share.
About Patterson Dental Company
Patterson Dental Company is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary Supply is the leading distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics in the eastern United States and the third largest nationally.
Rehabilitation Market
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the AbilityOne business upon consummation of the transaction. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
For additional information contact:
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add -3-
 
 
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add - 4 - -
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add - 5 - -
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add - 6 - -
 
 


