FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20030820061758.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 20, 2003, the registrant publicly announced financial results for the first quarter ended July 26, 2003. For further information, please refer to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $433,262,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2004 ended July 26, an increase of 12% from $387,739,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Acquisitions had a negligible impact on first quarter revenue growth. Net income increased 17% to $29,393,000 or $0.43 per diluted share, from income before the change in accounting for goodwill of $25,076,000 or $0.37 per diluted share in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
St. Paul, MNAugust 20, 2003
 
North American dental sales increased 9% to $371,812,000 in this year's first quarter, reflecting the following factors:
 
 
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 31% in this year's first quarter to $61,450,000. Excluding a significant pharmaceutical distribution agreement, Webster's comparable sales growth was approximately 8% for this period, consistent with internal expectations.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "The first quarter of fiscal 2004 was another very good period for Patterson. Our solid operating results reflect the ongoing vitality of our markets, together with Patterson's ability to meet the evolving needs of our customers through our full-service, value-added distribution strategy. Our dental business is continuing to benefit from strong demand for CEREC equipment and digital radiography systems. Software and office networking hardware, which form an integral part of our turnkey digital solution, are also experiencing robust demand. Having positioned Patterson as the leading provider of new-technology solutions and services, we are enabling dentists to meet the rapidly growing need for products that will strengthen office productivity, enhance clinical outcomes and improve the profitability of their practices. We are also encouraged by the solid growth of Webster's comparable veterinary supply business. Webster is currently in the process of opening new sales territories in the states of Washington and Ohio, which are promising new geographic markets for our veterinary supply operation."
Frechette added: "We remain very optimistic about Patterson's prospects for the balance of fiscal 2004, based on the strength of our dental and veterinary distribution operations. We are also excited about the new opportunities presented by our pending acquisition of AbilityOne Corporation. As we announced on August 18, AbilityOne is the leading distributor of products for the global physical and occupational therapy markets. As such, the acquisition of this high-quality company represents a logical extension of our value-added, specialty distribution strategy. AbilityOne is projected to make a positive contribution to Patterson's consolidated earnings from the outset. This transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter ending October 25."
 
 
Second Quarter Guidance
 
For the second quarter of fiscal 2004 ending October 25, Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.46 to $0.48 per diluted share. This forecast excludes an estimated contribution from AbilityOne. AbilityOne's earnings contribution will depend upon the date this acquisition is consummated.
 
 
About Patterson Dental Company
 
Patterson Dental Company is a value-added distributor serving the North American dental supply and companion-pet veterinarian supply markets.
 
 
Patterson Dental Supply
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, clinical and laboratory equipment, and value-added services to dentists, dental laboratories, institutions and other healthcare providers throughout North America. Patterson Dental Supply, which is growing significantly faster than its market, has the largest direct sales force in the industry, totaling nearly 1,300 sales representatives and equipment/software specialists serving the United States and Canada.
 
 
Webster Veterinary Supply
 
Webster is the leading distributor of veterinary supplies to companion-pet veterinary clinics in the eastern United States and the third largest nationally. One of the most respected names in the veterinary supply industry, Webster is a value-added, full-service distributor of consumable supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the AbilityOne business upon consummation of the transaction. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
For additional information contact:
 
 
 
 
1
Due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
 
 
 


