FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20031124163103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends Item 7 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed September 15, 2003, to present the following additional audited financial statements for AbilityOne Corporation, a predecessor company to AbilityOne Products Corp.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Previously filed.
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
AbilityOne Corporation and Subsidiaries
 
Period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000
with Report of Independent Auditors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors
AbilityOne Corporation and Subsidiaries
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of income and cash flows (financial statements) of AbilityOne Corporation and Subsidiaries (Company) for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations and cash flows of AbilityOne Corporation and Subsidiaries for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
/s/    Ernst & Young LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
October 17, 2003
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
Description of Business
 
AbilityOne Corporation and subsidiaries (collectively, the Company) manufacture and market a broad range of rehabilitation and patient-assist products, orthopedic treatment products, and other therapeutic products and devices. These products are sold primarily in North America to medical professionals, institutions, retail suppliers, and consumers.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recognized upon shipment of products to customers. No single customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated sales.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
AbilityOne Corporation is a majority-owned subsidiary of BISSELL Inc. (Parent). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AbilityOne Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Concentration of Credit Risk
 
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations and maintains reserves for potential credit losses.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
 
The Company's Canadian subsidiary uses the Canadian dollar as its functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency at the year-end exchange rate, while revenues and expenses are translated at weighted-average rates during the year.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, which consist of cash, receivables, accounts payable, and long-term debt, approximate their fair values.
 
4
 
 
 
Cash Equivalents
 
All highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of three months or less, when purchased, are classified as cash equivalents.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of FIFO (first in, first out) cost or market.
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment are stated at cost. For financial reporting purposes, depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. For income tax purposes, accelerated depreciation methods and shorter useful lives are used.
 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill resulting from business acquisitions is stated at cost and amortized over a period not to exceed 40 years using the straight-line method.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company utilizes the liability method to account for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
 
The Company's federal tax return will be filed as part of its Parent's consolidated return. For financial reporting purposes, the Company has determined its income tax expense as if it were filing a separate federal tax return.
 
5
 
 
 
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company reviews long-lived assets, including goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If it is determined that an impairment loss has occurred based on expected future cash flows, a current charge to income is recognized.
 
Advertising
 
The Company expenses the costs of advertising as incurred. Advertising expense was $1,225 for the period January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000.
 
Stock Options
 
As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, (FAS No. 123), the Company accounts for stock options in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Options No. 25, (APB No. 25). The number of shares is fixed and the exercise price of the options granted to employees equals or exceeds the estimated fair value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. As such, no compensation expense has been recognized by the Company for these options.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
 
6
 
 
2.    Benefit Plans
 
The Company has a noncontributory, defined-benefit pension plan covering substantially all of its employees. The defined-benefit plan provides benefits based on the participants' years of service. The Company's funding policy for the defined-benefit plan is to make annual contributions which equal or exceed regulatory requirements.
 
Net periodic cost for the pension plan for the period January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000, amounted to $157.
 
Benefits paid to participants were $237 during the period January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000.
 
The Parent has a defined-contribution 401(k) savings plan for the benefit of substantially all of the Company's employees. The plan is entirely funded by participant contributions in the form of payroll deductions.
 
3.    Rent Expense
 
Rent expense charged to operations, including amounts paid under short-term cancelable leases, was $336 for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000.
 
The Company leases certain real property and equipment under noncancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2006.
 
Annual minimum rental payments required under operating leases are as follows:
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
4.    Income Taxes
 
The provision for income taxes for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000, consists of the following:
 
 
The difference between the amount of income tax provision recorded and the amount of income tax provision calculated using the U.S. federal statutory rate is primarily due to: (a) state and local income taxes, (b) foreign taxes, and (c) amortization of goodwill.
 
5.    Subsequent Event
 
On September 15, 2000, all of the outstanding shares of AbilityOne Corporation were acquired by AbilityOne Products Corp. for $68.7 million. This amount included common and preferred stock of the acquirer valued at $2 million which was issued to former stock option holders. The acceleration of the vesting of the options resulted in expense that is included in transaction related expenses. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the specific assets and liabilities based upon their fair market values. The following summarizes the purchase price allocation and cash paid:
 
 
8
 
 

Exhibit 23.3
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-56764) pertaining to the 1992 Stock Option Plan, 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, of the Patterson Dental Company, the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-03583) pertaining to the Patterson Dental Company Capital Accumulation Plan of Patterson Dental Company, the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-45742) pertaining to the Patterson Dental Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-87488) pertaining to the Patterson Dental Company 2001 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan and the Patterson Dental Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan or the Thompson Dental Company Stock Ownership Plan, the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No.s 333-19951, 333-41199, 333-61489, and 333-79147), and the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101691) pertaining to the Patterson Dental Company 2002 Stock Option Plan of our report dated October 17, 2003 relating to the statements of income and cash flows for the period from January 1, 2000 to September 15, 2000 of AbilityOne Corporation and Subsidiaries, which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Patterson Dental Company dated November 21, 2003, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
 
Chicago, Illinois
November 21, 2003


