FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20040826062124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 26, 2004, the registrant publicly announced financial results for the first quarter ended July 31, 2004. For further information, please refer to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
August 26, 2004
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $577,943,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 ended July 31, an increase of 33% from $433,262,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Sales for the current quarter include contributions from four acquisitions and the impact of an extra or fourteenth week in the first quarter, which will make fiscal 2005 a 53-week year ending on April 30, 2005. Net income increased 39% to $40,815,000 or $0.59 per diluted share, from $29,393,000 or $0.43 per diluted share in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. The acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. in last year's second quarter continued having a significant positive impact on consolidated earnings, but as previously forecasted, the three most recent transactions, which were completed near the end of fiscal 2004, had a minimal impact on consolidated first quarter earnings. The majority of the earnings contribution from these latter three acquisitions is anticipated during the second half of fiscal 2005.
St. Paul, MNAugust 26, 2004
 
The Patterson Dental Supply unit, Patterson's largest business, reported sales growth of 14% to $425,617,000 in the first quarter. The May 2004 acquisition of CAESY Education Systems, Inc. and the estimated impact of the extra week contributed six percentage points of first quarter sales growth.
 
 
 
 
AbilityOne Products Corp., which was acquired in September 2003, reported sales of $77,245,000, which includes the May 2004 acquisition of Medco Supply Company, Inc. and the impact of the extra week. Excluding these items, AbilityOne's first quarter sales increased 6% on a pro forma basis, which was consistent with expectations.
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 22% in the first quarter to $75,081,000. The positive impact of the April 2004 acquisition of ProVet and the extra week offset the conversion of a temporary pharmaceutical distribution agreement into an agency arrangement in last year's third quarter. After adjusting for these factors, Webster's internal sales were unchanged in this year's first quarter.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "We are particularly encouraged by the strong growth of dental consumable supplies in this year's first quarter. As we have reported throughout the past year, we have focused considerable resources on strengthening this portion of our dental business, and the 7% rate of internal sales growth marked the third consecutive quarter of improving U.S. consumables sales. Our first quarter results also
benefited from the continuation of solid demand for basic and new-technology dental equipment and related software, as well as from the sales contributions from recent acquisitions, which have strengthened the market positions of our dental, veterinary and rehabilitation supply businesses."
 
Frechette continued: "We are confident that the appropriate plans and strategies are in place to ensure the continued success of this organization. At this stage, the second quarter is shaping up as another good period for Patterson, and we are forecasting earnings of $0.62 to $0.64 per diluted share for this period. We also reiterate our previously issued financial guidance of $2.68 to $2.72 for full-year fiscal 2005."
 
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary Supply is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -3-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -4-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -5-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -6-
 
 


