FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20040701091231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. .
OTHER EVENTS
 
Reference is made to the press release issued to the public by the registrant on July 1, 2004 announcing the change of the registrant's name from Patterson Dental Company to Patterson Companies, Inc. Such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Hold For Release Until:
July 1, 2004, 7:00 a.m. EDT
 
 
Patterson Dental Company (Nasdaq: PDCO) today announced that it has changed its corporate name to Patterson Companies, Inc. Patterson will retain its existing Nasdaq stock symbol.
July 1, 2004St. Paul, MN
 
The new corporate name was adopted to reflect Patterson's expanding base of business, which now encompasses the veterinary and rehabilitation supply markets, as well as its traditional base of operations in the dental supply market.
 
Patterson's operating units will continue to be Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc. and AbilityOne Products Corp.
 
About Patterson
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc. is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
For additional information contact:
 


