FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20040929111044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend the date of the September 14, 2004 Form 8-K to be September 13, 2004, to provide information in accordance with Item 1.01, and to amend Item 8.01 of the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed September 15, 2004, to present additional information regarding the impact on live registration statements of the declaration of a 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend.
 
 
On September 13, 2004, our shareholders approved an amendment to the 2002 Stock Option Plan. The Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.26. Following the approval of the amendment by our shareholders, the Plan was renamed the "Patterson Companies, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan."
 
Item 8.01 is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
 
On September 14, 2004, the registrant's board of directors declared and the registrant announced a 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The registrant also announced a share repurchase program pursuant to which the company may purchase up to three million (pre-split) common shares (six million post-split shares) in open market transactions. For further information, please refer to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to Rule 416 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company's Registration Statements on Form S-8 (File Nos. 33-56764, 333-03583, 333-45742, 333-87488, 333-101691, and 333-114643) are deemed to cover additional shares of Common Stock issued or issuable thereunder as a result of the stock split. Further, the Company's Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-19951, 333-41199, 333-61489, 333-79147, and 333-116226) are deemed to cover additional shares of Common Stock issued or issuable thereunder as a result of the stock split.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.26
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the Patterson Companies, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option Plan is to permit the Board of Directors to develop and implement a variety of stock-based programs based on changing needs of the Company. The Board of Directors and senior management of Patterson Companies, Inc. believe it is in the best interest of its shareholders for officers, employees and certain other persons to own stock in the Company and that such ownership will enhance the Company's ability to attract highly qualified personnel, strengthen its retention capabilities, enhance the long-term performance of the Company to vest in Participants a proprietary interest in the success of the Company and to provide certain "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section l62(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
 
Upon approval of the Plan restatement by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Plan shall be renamed the "Patterson Companies, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan."
 
 
As used in the Plan, the following definitions apply to the terms indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
confidential information, or those set forth in Company manuals or statements of policy; (v) serious neglect or misconduct in the performance of the Participant's duties for the Company or willful or repeated failure or refusal to perform such duties.
 
 
 
 
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock, and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporation Transaction, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (other than the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 35% or more of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Corporate Transaction, and (3) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee in the Award within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code and related regulations: (a) revenue; (b) cash flow, (c) earnings per share, (d) income before taxes, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, (e) return on equity, (f) total shareholder return, (g) share price performance, (h) return on capital, (i) return on assets or net assets, (j) income or net income, (k) operating income or net operating income, (l) operating profit or net operating profit, (m) operating margin or profit margin, (n) return on operating revenue, (o) return on invested capital, (p) market segment share, (q) product release schedules, (r) new product innovation, (s) product cost reduction through advanced technology, (t) brand recognition/acceptance, (u) product ship or sales targets, (v) customer segmentation or satisfaction; (w) customer account profitability; or (x) economic value added (or equivalent metric).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 hereof, the Committee may grant Awards hereunder with respect to shares of Company Stock that in the aggregate do not exceed three million (3,000,000) shares, including shares which may have been issued pursuant to Stock Option Awards under the Plan prior to September 13, 2004. The grant of an Award shall not reduce the number of shares of Company Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted pursuant to the Plan, except to the extent shares of common stock are issuable pursuant thereto. Shares subject to Awards granted under the Plan shall count against the foregoing limits at the time they are granted but shall again become available for grant under the Plan as follows:
 
 
 
 
Shares of Company Stock issued under the Plan may be either newly issued shares or treasury shares, at the discretion of the Committee.
 
The maximum number of shares of Company Stock that may be issued in the form of Restricted Stock, Stock Bonuses or Restricted Stock Units, is an aggregate of one million (1,000,000) shares.
 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 hereof, the Committee shall not in any calendar year grant Awards hereunder to any individual Participant with respect to more than 150,000 shares of Company Stock, which limit shall include any shares represented by an Award that has been cancelled. Such Awards may be made up entirely of any one type of Award or any combination of types of Awards available under the Plan, in the Committee's sole discretion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
furtherance of such purposes, the Committee may adopt, ratify or make such modifications, amendments, procedures, subplans and the like as may be necessary or advisable to comply with provisions of laws in other countries or jurisdictions in which the Company or its subsidiaries operates or has employees; and
 
 
The Company intends that the most substantial number of Awards granted under the Plan to Eligible Persons whom the Committee believes will be "covered employees" under Section 162(m)(3) of the Code will constitute "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The persons who shall be eligible to receive Awards pursuant to the Plan shall be those Eligible Persons defined in Section 2(o) who are designated by the Committee.
 
 
The Committee may grant Options pursuant to the Plan. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in such form and including such terms as the Committee shall from time to time approve. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, Options shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
Each Option granted under the Plan shall be clearly identified in the applicable Award Agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or as a Non-Qualified Stock Option. In the absence of such identification, an Option shall be deemed to be a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
 
 
The exercise price-per-share of any Option granted under the Plan shall be such price as the Committee shall determine which shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the date on which such Option is granted, except as permitted in connection with the issuance of Options in a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code) are first exercisable by any employee during any calendar year shall exceed the maximum limit, if any, imposed from time to time under Section 422 of the Code, such Options in excess of such limit shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options. In such an event, the determination of which Options shall remain Incentive Stock Options and which shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options shall be based on the order in which such Options were granted. All other terms and provisions of such Options that are deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options shall remain unchanged.
 
 
 
The Committee may grant SARs pursuant to the Plan, which SARs shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve. SARs shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The exercise price of any SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of such SAR.
 
 
 
 
 
, , that no SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the date such SAR was granted; and, , , that each SAR shall be subject to earlier termination, expiration or cancellation as provided in the Plan.
provided
however
provided
further
 
 
 
 
The Committee may grant shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Plan, and may provide that a portion of a Participant's compensation may be granted in the form of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. Each grant of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions and subject to such agreements or understandings as the Committee shall from time to time approve. Each grant of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
At the time of the grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, the Committee shall establish the date of issuance and vesting with respect to such shares or Awards. In the case of Restricted Stock Units, no shares of Company Stock shall be issued when the Award is granted, but rather upon the lapse of restrictions and the restricted period, at which time, shares of Company Stock or other cash or property shall be issued to the Participant holding the Restricted Stock Units. The restriction period for an Award of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall not be less than three (3) years, except that a restriction period of at least one (1) year is permitted if the Award is performance based.
 
 
At the time of the grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, the Committee may impose such restrictions, conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to the vesting of such shares or units, as it, in its absolute discretion, deems appropriate. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the Committee may require, as a condition to the vesting of any class or classes of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, that the Participant or the Company achieve such Performance Measures including, but not limited to the period of active service as the Committee may specify at the time of the grant.
 
 
Prior to the vesting of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, no transfer of a Participant's rights with respect to such shares or units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to such shares or units, but immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such shares or units, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant and the transfer shall be of no force or effect.
 
 
Restricted Stock issued prior to the Vesting Date may be certificated or uncertificated, as determined by the Committee.
 
 
The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions (including forfeiture provisions and restrictions against transfer) contained in the Patterson Companies, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and an Award Agreement entered into between the registered owner of such shares and Patterson Companies, Inc. A copy of the Plan and Award Agreement
is on file in the office of the Secretary of Patterson Companies, Inc., 1031 Mendota Heights Road, St Paul, Minnesota 55120.
 
Such legend shall not be removed from the certificate evidencing such shares until such shares vest pursuant to the terms of the Award Agreement.
 
 
 
Upon the vesting of a share of Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Section 8(c) hereof shall cease to apply to such share. Reasonably promptly after a share of Restricted Stock vests pursuant to the terms hereof, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to the Participant to whom such shares (whether certificated or uncertificated) were granted, a certificate evidencing such share, free of the legend set forth in Section 8(d)(i) hereof, together with any other property of the Participant held by the custodian pursuant to Section 8(d) hereof.
 
 
The Participant shall have the right to vote all shares of Restricted Stock during the period the restriction is enforced. Whenever such voting rights are to be exercised, the Company shall provide the Participant with the same notices and other materials as are provided to other holders of the Stock, and the Participant shall be provided adequate opportunity to review the notices and material and vote the Restricted Stock allocated to him or her. Any dividends authorized by the Company to be paid to the Participant during the period the restriction is enforced, will be subject to the same restrictions as the underlying shares upon which the dividend is declared.
 
 
The Committee may grant Stock Bonuses in such amounts as it shall determine from time to time, subject to the limit set forth in Section 3 hereof. A Stock Bonus shall be in lieu of all or a portion of a Participant's salary or bonus and shall be paid at such time (including a future date selected by the Committee at the time of grant) and subject to such conditions as the Committee shall determine at the time of the grant of such Stock Bonus. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the Committee may require, as a condition to the payment of a Stock Bonus, that the Participant or the Company achieve such Performance Measures as the Committee may specify at the time of the grant. Certificates for shares of Company Stock granted as a Stock Bonus shall be issued in the name of the Participant to whom such grant was made and delivered to such Participant as soon as practicable after the date on which such Stock Bonus is required to be paid. Prior to the date on which a Stock Bonus awarded hereunder is required to be paid, such Award shall constitute an unfunded, unsecured promise by the Company to distribute Company Stock in the future.
 
The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, in connection with any grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Bonus, or Non-Qualified Stock Options or at any time thereafter, grant a Cash Bonus, payable promptly after the date on which the Participant is required to recognize income for federal income tax purposes in connection with such grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Non-Qualified Stock Options or Stock Bonuses, in such amounts as the Committee shall determine from time to time; , , that in no event shall the amount of a Cash Bonus exceed the Fair Market Value of the related shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units or Stock Bonus on such date on the limits set forth in Section 3(b). A Cash Bonus shall be subject to such conditions as the Committee shall determine at the time of the grant of such Cash Bonus. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a Cash Bonus is intended to be qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) and the rules and regulations thereunder, and no payment shall be made under any such Cash Bonus until the Committee certifies in writing that the Performance Measures for the performance period have in fact been achieved.
provided
however
 
 
The Committee may grant Performance Awards which may be earned based upon achievement of Performance Measures. With respect to each such award, the Committee shall establish a performance period over which achievement of Performance Measures shall be determined and performance measures to be met or exceeded. Such standards shall be established at the time of such award and set forth in the Award Agreement.
 
 
Each Performance Award shall have a maximum value established by the Committee at the time of such award.
 
 
Performance Awards shall be awarded to an Eligible Person contingent upon future performance of the Company and/or the Company's subsidiary, division or department in which such person is employed over the performance period. The Committee shall establish the Performance Measures applicable to such performance.
 
 
In determining the value of Performance Awards, the Committee shall take into account an eligible person's responsibility level, performance, potential, cash compensation level, unexercised Options, other incentive awards and such other considerations as it deems appropriate. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, to the extent necessary for a Performance Award payable in cash to be qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and the rules and regulations thereunder, the maximum amount that may be paid under all such Performance Awards to any one person during any calendar year shall be $1,500,000.
 
Following the end of each performance period, the Participant holding each Performance Award shall be entitled to received payment of an amount, not exceeding the maximum value of the Performance Award, based on the achievement of the Performance Measures for such performance period, as determined by the Committee. Payment of Performance Awards may be made wholly in cash, wholly in shares of common stock or a combination thereof, all at the discretion of the Committee. Payment shall be made in a lump sum or in installments, and shall be subject to such vesting and other terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Committee for such purpose. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the case of a Performance Award intended to be qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) and the rules and regulations thereunder, no payment shall be made under any such Performance Award until the Committee certifies in writing that the Performance Measures for the performance period have in fact been achieved.
 
 
When a Performance Award is payable in installments in common stock, if determined by the Committee, one or more stock certificates or book-entry credits registered in the name of the Participant representing shares of common stock which would have been issuable to the Participant if such payment had been made in full on the day following the end of the applicable performance period may be registered in the name of such Participant, and during the period until such installment becomes due such Participant shall have the right to receive dividends (or the cash equivalent thereof) and shall also have the right to vote such common stock and all other shareholder rights (in each case unless otherwise provided in the agreement evidencing the Performance Award), with the exception that (i) the Participant shall not be entitled to delivery of any stock certificate until the installment payable in shares becomes due, (ii) the Company shall retain custody of any stock certificates until such time and (iii) the Participant may not sell, transfer, pledge, exchange, hypothecate or dispose of such common stock until such time. A distribution with respect to shares of common stock payable in installments which has not become due, other than a distribution in cash, shall be subject to the same restrictions as the shares of common stock with respect to which such distribution was made, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
 
Each Performance Award shall be evidenced by an agreement in such form and containing such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee from time to time shall approve.
 
 
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to Eligible Persons under which the Participant shall be entitled to receive payments (in cash, shares, other securities, other Awards or other property as determined in the discretion of the Committee) equivalent to the amount of cash dividends paid by the Company to holders of shares with respect to a number of shares determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan, such Dividend Equivalents may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based Awards in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee shall in its sole discretion may determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan. Stock Awards may entail the transfer of actual shares of Company Stock to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of shares of Company Stock.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, unless otherwise provided by the Committee in any Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Committee reasonably believes that a Participant has committed an act of misconduct which the Committee determines may constitute Cause, it may suspend the Participant's right to exercise any rights under an Award pending a determination by the Committee. If the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company for Cause, then the Committee shall have the right to cancel any Awards granted to the Participant, whether or not vested, under the Plan. Any rights the Company may have hereunder in respect of the events giving rise to Cause shall be in addition to the rights the Company may have under any other agreement with a Participant or at law or in equity. Any determination of whether a Participant's employment is (or is deemed to have been) terminated for Cause shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion, which determination shall be final and binding on all parties. If, subsequent to a Participant's termination of employment (whether voluntary or involuntary) without Cause, it is discovered that the Participant's employment could have been terminated for Cause, such Participant's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated for Cause. A Participant's termination of employment for Cause shall be effective as of the date of the occurrence of the event giving rise to Cause, regardless of when the determination of Cause is made.
 
 
If at any time within one year after the date on which a Participant exercises rights under an Award, or if income is realized by a Participant in connection with any other stock-based award (each of which events shall be a "realization event"), if the Committee determines in its discretion that the Company has been materially harmed by the Participant, whether such harm (i)
results in the Participant's termination or deemed termination of employment for Cause or (ii) results from any activity of the Participant determined by the Committee to be in competition with any activity of the Company, or otherwise prejudicial, contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company (including, but not limited to, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, adviser or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with or acting against the interest of the Company), then any gain realized by the Participant from the realization event shall be paid by the Participant to the Company upon notice from the Company. Such gain shall be determined as of the date of the realization event, without regard to any subsequent change in the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock. The Company shall have the right to offset such gain against any amounts otherwise owed to the Participant by the Company (whether as wages, vacation pay, or pursuant to any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
 
 
Awards may be granted for no cash consideration or for any cash or other consideration as may be determined by the Committee or required by applicable law.
 
 
Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with or in substitution for any other Award or any award granted under any plan of the Company other than the Plan. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or in addition to or in tandem with awards granted under any such other plan of the Company may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
 
 
Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
 
 
The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company. In addition, the Company may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
 
 
No fractional shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash shall be paid in lieu of a fractional share, or whether fractional rights shall be cancelled or otherwise eliminated.
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Plan, payments or transfers to be made by the Company upon the grant, exercise or settlement of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine (including, without limitation, cash, shares, other securities, other
Awards or other property or any combination thereof), and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments or on a deferred basis, in each case in accordance with rules of the Committee.
 
Except as provided herein, the purchase price of each share of Stock purchased by an Eligible Person or transferee upon the exercise of any Option or other Award requiring payment shall be paid: (i) in United States dollars in cash or by check, bank draft or money order payable to the order of the Company; (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, through the delivery of shares of Stock, having initially or as a result of successive exchanges of shares, an aggregate fair market value (as determined in the manner provided under this Plan) equal to the aggregate purchase price for the Stock as to which the Option is being exercised; (iii) at the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of both (i) and (ii) above; or (iv) by such other method as may be permitted in the written stock option agreement between the Company and the Optionee.
 
 
Subject to Section 6(c), no Award and no right under any such Award shall be transferable by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or the rules promulgated thereunder; that, if so determined by the Committee, a Participant may, designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to exercise the rights of the Participant and receive any property distributable with respect to any Award upon the death of the Participant. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6(c) or any applicable Award Agreement or amendment thereto, each Award or right under any Award shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Any Award which is transferred pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order or as otherwise permitted by the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement shall remain subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Award Agreement and the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in any applicable Award Agreement or amendment thereto, no Award or right under any such Award may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Company.
provided, however,
 
 
The term of each Award shall be for such periods as may be determined by the Committee at the time of grant but in no event shall any Award have a term of more than 10 years.
 
 
 
In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting shares of the Company would be reasonably likely to result in the diminution or enlargement of any of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan or under an Award (including, without limitation, the benefits or potential benefits of provisions relating to the term, vesting or exercisability of any Option or the availability of any Stock Appreciation Rights, if
any, contained in any Award, and any Change in Control or similar provisions of any Award), the Committee shall, in such manner as it shall deem equitable or appropriate in order to prevent such diminution or enlargement of any such benefits or potential benefits, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of shares (or other securities or other property) which thereafter may be made the subject of Awards under the Plan, (ii) the number and type of shares (or other securities or other property) subject to outstanding Awards and (iii) the purchase or exercise price with respect to any Award.
 
 
Unless the Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines, any securities or other property (including dividends paid in cash) received by a Participant with respect to a share of Restricted Stock, which has passed its issuance date but has not vested as of the date of such event, as a result of any dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares or otherwise, not involving a Change in Control, shall not vest until such share of Restricted Stock vests in accordance with a Participant's Award Agreement, and shall be promptly deposited with the custodian designated pursuant to Paragraph 8(d)(ii) hereof.
 
 
No person shall have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Company Stock covered by or relating to any Option or Restricted Stock Unit granted pursuant to the Plan until the date that the Participant becomes the registered owner of such shares. Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 14 hereof, no adjustment to any Option or Restricted Stock Unit shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs prior to the date such stock certificate is issued.
 
 
 
 
 
its counsel that the issuance and delivery of such certificates is in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange or market on which shares of Company Stock are traded. The Committee may require, as a condition of the issuance and delivery of certificates evidencing shares of Company Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, that the recipient of such shares make such covenants, agreements and representations, and that such certificates bear such legends, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or desirable.
 
 
 
It is intended that the Plan be applied and administered in compliance with Rule l6b-3. If any provision of the Plan would be in violation of Rule 16b-3 if applied as written, such provision shall not have effect as written and shall be given effect so as to comply with Rule l6b-3, as determined be the Committee. The Committee is authorized to amend the Plan and to make any such modifications to Award Agreements to comply with Rule l6b-3, as it may be amended from time to time, and to make any other such amendments or modifications deemed necessary or appropriate to better accomplish the purposes of the Plan in light of any amendments made to Rule 16b-3.
 
 
To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, the Committee may and/or a Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise with respect to any issuance, exercise or vesting of an Award, or any disposition of shares of Company Stock. The Company shall not be required to issue shares or to recognize the disposition of such shares until such obligations are satisfied. To the extent permitted or required by the Committee, these obligations may or shall be satisfied by having the Company withhold a portion of the shares of stock that otherwise would be issued to a Participant under such Award or by tendering a Participant's Previously Acquired Shares.
 
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan:
 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan at any time and from time to time; that, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made that, absent such approval, would (i) increase the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan; (ii) permit granting of Options at less than the market price of Company Stock; (iii) permit the repricing of outstanding Options; (iv) amend the maximum shares set forth that may be granted as Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units or Stock Bonus to any Participant; (v) extend the term of the Plan; (vi) change the class of persons eligible to participate in the Plan; or (vii) otherwise implement any amendment required to be approved by shareholders under the rules of any applicable stock exchange or NASDAQ Marketplace Rules.
provided, however,
 
 
The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry the Plan into effect.
 
 
The grant to a Participant of an Option, SAR, Performance Award or other equity-based Awards shall impose no obligation upon such Participant to exercise such Option or SAR.
 
 
No transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution of any Stock Award, or the right to exercise any Stock Award, shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee shall have been furnished with (a) written notice thereof and with a copy of the will and/or such evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and (b) an agreement by the transferee to comply with all the terms and conditions of the Stock Award that are or would have been applicable to the Participant and to be bound by the acknowledgments made by the Participant in connection with the grant of the Stock Award
 
 
The expenses related to administering the Plan shall be paid by the Company. Any proceeds received by the Company in connection with any Stock Award will be used for general corporate purposes.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision hereunder, prior to a Change in Control, if and to the extent that the Committee determines the Company's federal tax deduction in respect of a Stock Award may be limited as a result of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may take the following actions:
 
until a date that is within 30 days after the earlier to occur of (i) the date that compensation paid to the Participant no longer is subject to the deduction limitation under Section 162(m) of the Code and (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Control. In the event that a Participant exercises an Option or SAR at a time when the Participant is a "covered employee," and the Committee determines to delay the payment in respect of such any Stock Award, the Committee shall credit cash or, in the case of an amount payable in Company Stock, the Fair Market Value of the Company Stock, payable to the Participant to a book-entry account established in the Participant's name in the financial records of the Company. The Participant shall have no rights in respect of such account and the amount credited thereto shall not be transferable by the Participant other than by will or laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may credit additional amounts to such account as it may determine in its sole discretion. Any account created hereunder shall represent only an unfunded unsecured promise by the Company to pay the amount credited thereto to the Participant in the future.
 
 
 
In addition to the remedies of the Company elsewhere provided for herein, a failure by a Participant (or beneficiary or permitted transferee) to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the Plan or Agreement, unless such failure is remedied by such Participant (or a beneficiary or permitted transferee) within ten days after having been notified of such failure by the Committee, shall be grounds for the cancellation and forfeiture of such Award, in whole or in part, as the Committee, in its absolute discretion, may determine. No Participant will have rights under an Award granted to such Participant unless and until an Award Agreement shall have been duly executed on behalf of the Company.
 
 
This Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors as an amendment and restatement of the Company's 2002 Stock Option Plan on July 21, 2004, subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company. The Plan shall be effective upon
such approval (the "Effective Date"). If the Plan is not approved by the Company's shareholders, then the Plan as in effect prior to the adoption of this amended and restated by the Board of Directors shall continue in full force and effect.
 
 
The Plan and the right to grant Awards under the Plan will terminate on September 9, 2012.
 
 
If any provision of the Plan is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of the Plan shall not be affected but shall be applied as if the invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included in the Plan.
 
 
Except to the extent preempted by any applicable law, the Plan will be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota, without reference to the principles of conflicts of law.
 
 
Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.


