FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20040219061315.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7. .
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
ITEM 12. .
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 19, 2004, the registrant publicly announced financial results for the third quarter and nine months ended January 24, 2004. For further information, please refer to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Hold for Release Until:
6:00 a.m. Eastern
Thursday, February 19, 2004
 
 
Patterson Dental Company (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $521,218,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 ended January 24, an increase of 24% from $421,070,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Net income increased 33% to $40,061,000 or $0.58 per diluted share, from $30,102,000 or $0.44 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Consolidated results include the first full quarter's contribution from AbilityOne Products Corp., which was acquired on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne provided third quarter revenues of $52,989,000 and earnings of approximately $0.05 per diluted share.
St. Paul, MNFebruary 19, 2004
 
Sales of the Patterson Dental Supply unit, Patterson's largest business, increased 12% to $425,145,000 in the third quarter, with all of this growth generated from internal operations.
 
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 7% in the third quarter to $43,084,000, consistent with prior public statements related to the impact of converting a major but temporary pharmaceutical distribution agreement into an agency arrangement. This conversion was largely completed prior to the start of this year's third quarter. Excluding the impact of the former distribution agreement, Webster's revenue growth going forward is expected to be in line with the growth of the companion pet veterinary supply market. The absence of the distribution agreement also is expected to have a positive impact on Webster's gross margins.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "The third quarter of fiscal 2004 was another very good period for Patterson. We believe sales of dental consumables are responding favorably to the strengthened focus that we started placing on this portion of our business earlier in the year. Our sales and profitability also are continuing to benefit from Patterson's position as North America's leading distributor of new-technology dental solutions. Sales of the CEREC 3-D dental restorative system increased strongly in the third quarter as this product continues to gain momentum in the market place. Patterson is the exclusive North American distributor of CEREC equipment, and we recently signed an agreement with CEREC's manufacturer to extend this relationship through September 2006. Demand also remains strong for digital radiography systems and related clinical software, as well as for our office networking solutions. Webster posted solid, on-plan results, and we are satisfied with the performance of AbilityOne, the world's leading, full-service distributor of products for the global physical and occupational therapy markets. We are optimistic about Patterson's outlook for this year's fourth quarter, making us confident fiscal 2004 should be another year of record sales and earnings for Patterson."
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 ending April 24, Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.64 to $0.66 per diluted share, which includes an estimated contribution from AbilityOne of $0.06 to $0.07 per diluted share. Patterson reported earnings of $0.49 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The Company expects full-year fiscal 2004 earnings of $2.16 to $2.18 per diluted share, which includes the impact of AbilityOne from the date of acquisition.
Patterson Dental Company
Add -2-
 
About Patterson Dental Company
 
Patterson Dental Company is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary Supply is the leading distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics in the eastern United States and the third largest nationally.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the AbilityOne business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add -3-
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add -4-
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add -5-
 
 
 
Patterson Dental Company
Add -6-
 
 


