FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20051123093945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On November 23, 2005, Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 ended October 29, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $641,697,000 for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 ended October 29, an increase of 11% from $578,237,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Excluding the impact of two acquisitions made during the past year, internally generated sales rose approximately 7%. Net income increased 5% to $44,720,000 or $0.32 per diluted share, from $42,504,000 or $0.31 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.
St. Paul, MNNovember 23, 2005
 
Patterson Dental, Patterson's largest business, reported sales growth of 9% to $480,080,000 in the second quarter. The September 2005 acquisition of Accu-Bite, Inc., a Michigan-based dental distributor, accounted for approximately three percentage points of Patterson Dental's second quarter sales growth.
 
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary unit increased 29% in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 to $82,817,000. Excluding the October 2004 acquisition of Milburn Distributions, Webster's second quarter sales rose 14%. Sales of Patterson Medical, Patterson's rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, increased 5% in the second quarter to $78,800,000.
 
James W. Wiltz, president and chief executive officer, commented: "Patterson's second quarter earnings shortfall was attributable primarily to weaker than forecasted sales growth of basic dental equipment, including chairs, lights and cabinets. A below-plan performance in revenues and gross margins at the Patterson Medical unit also affected our results for this period. Consistent with prior statements, the operations of Accu-Bite had a neutral impact on Patterson's consolidated profitability. On the positive side, our second quarter results benefited from improved growth of consumable dental supplies year over year, ongoing demand for CEREC and digital radiography systems, and the performance of our Webster Veterinary unit. Webster is benefiting from the expansion of its geographic marketplace through acquisitions and internal expansion, in addition to a new pharmaceutical distribution agreement with Pfizer."
 
Wiltz added: "We believe dentists will continue to modernize their practices with new equipment that strengthens productivity and provides offices with a state-of-the-art appearance. To fully optimize this opportunity, we are taking actions to strengthen our focus on basic dental equipment. However, these measures are not expected to have a significant near-term impact on the growth rate of basic dental equipment sales. As a result, we are forecasting earnings of $0.38 to $0.40 per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 ending January 28, 2006. For the same reason, we previously issued revised full-year earnings guidance of $1.44 to $1.46 per diluted share, down from the guidance of $1.54 to $1.58 per diluted share that was issued at the beginning of fiscal 2006. Despite our near-term challenges, we believe that Patterson's business foundation remains strong and that our dental, veterinary and rehabilitation units can further strengthen their positions of industry leadership. As a result, we remain confident about Patterson's long-term prospects."
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
For additional information contact:
 
 
 
Patterson's second quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . Listeners should go to this website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary audio software. The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the second quarter conference call can be heard through November 30, 2005 by dialing by dialing 1-303-590-3000 and providing the 11044919 confirmation code.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 
Certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.
NOTE:
 
 
 
 


