FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20050729124628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
 
(b) On July 25, 2005, David K. Beecken resigned as a director of Patterson Companies, Inc. A press release announcing Mr. Beecken's resignation, dated July 29, 2005, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today announced the resignation of David K. Beecken from its Board of Directors. Mr. Beecken determined that a recent investment in a Patterson supplier by his firm, Beecken Petty O'Keefe & Company, could result in a potential conflict of interest under Patterson's well-established code of ethics. Rather than compromise the integrity of Patterson's code by seeking a waiver of this potential conflict, he elected to resign from Patterson's board.
St. Paul, MNJuly 29, 2005
 
Patterson intends to seek a replacement for the board position vacated by Mr. Beecken.
 
Peter L. Frechette, Patterson's chairman, commented: "We will miss David's wise counsel and perspective, and his decision to resign his seat fully reflects his commitment to Patterson's values and code of ethics. During his nearly 20-year tenure on our board, he has made significant contributions to Patterson's success by providing valuable insight into the development of our overall vision and business strategies. We wish David the very best in all of his current and future pursuits."
 
Mr. Beecken said: "My long tenure as a Patterson director has been deeply rewarding, both professionally and personally. I am proud of my association with Patterson and its management team, and I am confident of the company's continued success in the future."
 
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
Patterson Medical (formerly AbilityOne Corporation) is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 


