FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20051214124522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today announced that Dr. Charles Reich, retired executive vice president of 3M Company, has been elected to its board of directors. He will serve on the board's audit and governance committees.
St. Paul, MNDecember 13, 2005
 
Reich's election increases the Patterson board to seven directors.
 
Reich joined 3M in 1968 as a research chemist and served in several management positions in the R&D organization before moving into general business management. He held a variety of executive posts at 3M prior to assuming the leadership position of the Health Care unit, a business segment with revenues in excess of $4.0 billion. Reich currently serves on the board of directors of Imation Corporation.
 
James W. Wiltz, Patterson's president and chief executive officer, commented: "We are extremely pleased to have Dr. Reich join the Patterson board. His background in health care and international business management will add significant expertise and depth to our board of directors. We are confident that he will make valuable contributions to Patterson's growth and continued success."
 
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary Supply is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 


