FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20050224070255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 24, 2005, Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2005 ended January 29, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $638,005,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 ended January 29, an increase of 22% from $521,218,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Excluding four acquisitions earlier this year, internally generated sales were up approximately 15%. Net income increased 25% to $50,137,000 or $0.36 per diluted share, from $40,061,000 or $0.29 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
St. Paul, MNFebruary 24, 2005
 
The Patterson Dental Supply unit, Patterson's largest business, reported sales growth of 18% to $499,796,000 in the third quarter. Substantially all of this growth was internally generated.
 
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary Supply unit increased 64% in the third quarter to $70,701,000, which included contributions from the acquisitions of ProVet in April 2004 and Milburn Distributions, Inc. in October. As previously reported, ProHeart 6, an injectable heartworm medication, was voluntarily withdrawn from the U.S. market by its manufacturer in September 2004. On an annual basis, ProHeart 6 contributed sales of approximately $12 million. Excluding the nearly $3 million of ProHeart 6 sales in last year's third quarter and the impact of the two acquisitions earlier this year, Webster's sales increased approximately 12% in this year's third quarter. This result was particularly positive since the third quarter is Webster's seasonally lowest period of the fiscal year.
 
Sales of AbilityOne Products Corp., Patterson's rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, increased 27% in the third quarter to $67,508,000. Excluding the May 2004 acquisition of Medco Supply Company, as well as the impact of the additional selling day in the quarter and currency adjustments related to its foreign operations, AbilityOne's internally generated sales increased approximately 9%.
 
Peter L. Frechette, chairman and chief executive officer, commented: "We are very encouraged by Patterson's strongly improved sales and earnings in this year's third quarter. Virtually every aspect of our dental business is continuing to perform at a high level. Sales of dental consumables registered their highest growth rate in recent years, while demand remains strong for basic equipment and new-generation dental systems, including the CEREC
3D dental restorative system, digital radiography and related networking systems. Dental practices are investing heavily in equipment and software that strengthens office productivity and improves clinical outcomes. As the leading distributor of dental equipment by a considerable margin, Patterson Dental is extremely well positioned to capitalize upon these ongoing investment trends."
 
Frechette continued: "AbilityOne's third quarter performance in comparison to the year-earlier period was affected by below-plan sales, modestly lower gross margins and certain unanticipated expenses. We believe this is a short-term situation and corrective actions are now underway. We are very encouraged by the solid performance of our Webster unit, which posted strong sales growth during the seasonally slow winter months despite the lost ProHeart revenues. Webster is pursuing a number of promising new opportunities, and we are optimistic about the prospects of our veterinary supply business."
 
Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.38 to $0.40 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 ending April 30, which is consistent with the Company's previously-issued financial guidance of $1.34 to $1.36 for the full fiscal year.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
 
Dental Market
 
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental Supply provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
 
Veterinary Market
 
Webster Veterinary Supply is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
 
Rehabilitation Market
 
AbilityOne Products Corp. is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 
 
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Patterson's third quarter earnings conference call will start at 11:00 a.m. Eastern today. To participate, call 1-800-366-7417 about 10 minutes before the start time and ask for the Patterson Companies conference call. A replay of the conference call can be heard through March 3, 2005 by dialing 1-303-590-3000 and providing the 11024161 pass code. Investors also can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . Listeners should go to this website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary audio software. The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -3-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -4-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -5-
 
 
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
Add -6-
 
 


