FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20070222094603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2007, Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 ended January 27, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq NMS: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $709,494,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 ended January 27, 2007, an increase of 4% from $682,402,000 in the year-earlier quarter. On a comparable basis, which excludes the telemarketing operation of the former Accu-Bite business that was closed in May 2006, consolidated sales increased approximately 6%. Net income came to $58,591,000 or $0.43 per diluted share, up 8% from $54,004,000 or $0.39 per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Current quarter earnings included an income tax benefit of $0.01 per diluted share related to the completion of an audit during the quarter that resulted in a reduction in accruals for prior years taxes, as well as stock compensation expense of approximately $0.01 per diluted share.
St. Paul, MNFebruary 22, 2007
Sales of Patterson Dental, Patterson's largest business, reported comparable basis sales growth of approximately 3% to $537,148,000 in the third quarter or 1% when Accu-Bite's telemarketing sales are included.
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary unit increased 17% in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 to $94,263,000. Excluding the December 2005 acquisition of Intra Corp, developer and marketer of IntraVet veterinary practice management software, Webster's sales rose 15%. Sales of Patterson Medical, Patterson's rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, increased 12% in the third quarter to $78,083,000 in comparison to the year-earlier level. Excluding the impact of three acquisitions related to the unit's branch office strategy, the divestiture of a small division in February 2006 and foreign currency translations, third quarter sales of Patterson Medical rose 8%.
James W. Wiltz, president and chief executive officer, commented: "Patterson's third quarter earnings were affected by a revenue shortfall at our Patterson Dental unit due to weaker than anticipated sales of basic dental equipment. This equipment-related sales shortfall was largely offset by the continuation of improved consolidated operating leverage due to strengthened expense management and an improvement in dental gross margins."
He continued: "We believe the third quarter slowdown in sales of basic dental equipment is short-term in nature. In addition, we believe the recently introduced enhancements to the CEREC line, which include improved software enabling significantly greater ease of use and an option for a new milling chamber for faster crown milling times, should result in stronger sales growth. Customer interest in CEREC units equipped with these features has been strong. However, given the timing of the introduction and the transition process to these new products, we believe CEREC sales could continue to be sluggish in the fourth quarter before strengthening in the first half of fiscal 2008."
Wiltz added: "Patterson's veterinary business turned in another strong performance due to the growth of its consumables business and continued robust sales of equipment and IntraVet practice management software. We believe our Webster unit is increasingly well-positioned for the continuation of profitable growth in the companion-pet veterinary market. We also are encouraged by Patterson Medical's solid sales growth. Patterson Medical is starting to benefit from the incremental revenues generated by its first four branch offices. In all, we believe this business is responding to the range of growth strategies implemented by its new management team."
Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.44 to $0.46 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 ending April 28, 2007. This guidance incorporates stock compensation expense of approximately $0.01 per diluted share. Patterson also reduced its full-year fiscal 2007 earnings guidance from the previously issued $1.54 to $1.57, which included approximately $0.04 of stock compensation expense, to $1.52 to $1.54, reflecting actual third quarter earnings and the potential impact of the CEREC changeover.
Impact of Compensation Expense Under SFAS No. 123(R)
Net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on April 30, 2006 using the modified prospective method. Management believes that reporting net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) provides useful supplemental information that may enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and may enhance the comparability of results against comparable periods. Net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of SFAS No. 123(R) are used by management internally to measure the company's profitability and performance, but should not be considered as an alternative to, or a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of net income and earnings per share with and without the impact of SFAS No. 123(R) is included as a table attached to this press release.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its
sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Patterson's third quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . Listeners should go to this website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary audio software. The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the third quarter conference call can be heard through March 1, 2007 by dialing 1-303-590-3000 and providing the 11084246 confirmation code.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.
 
 


