FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20071226120733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2007, the board of directors of Patterson Companies, Inc. (the "Company") approved an increase in the number of shares that can be acquired under its existing share repurchase plan from 6 million to 25 million shares. The shares can be purchased in open market transactions through December 31, 2012.
In addition, on December 21, 2007 the Company adopted a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate share repurchases between December 24, 2007 and May 31, 2008. A Rule 10b5-1 trading plan allows the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market during periods in which stock trading is otherwise closed for the Company.
A press release dated December 24, 2007 that describes the expanded share repurchase plan and the adoption of the written trading plan was issued by the Company. A copy of this press release is furnished as exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved an increase in the number of shares that can be acquired under its existing share repurchase plan from 6 million to 25 million shares. The shares can be purchased in open market transactions through December 31, 2012. The expanded stock repurchase plan will be funded with internally-generated cash.
St. Paul, MNDecember 24, 2007
Patterson also has adopted a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate share repurchases between December 24, 2007 and May 31, 2008. A 10b5-1 Plan allows Patterson to repurchase shares at times when it ordinarily would not be in the market due to its trading policies or the possession of material non-public information.
There is no assurance that any shares will be repurchased. However, any shares that are acquired will constitute authorized but unissued shares.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


