FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20070823092328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 23, 2007, Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 ended July 28, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $701,403,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 ended July 28, an increase of 7% from $655,488,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Net income came to $47,544,000 or $0.35 per diluted share, up 14% from $41,584,000 or $0.30 per diluted share in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
St. Paul, MNAugust 23, 2007
First quarter earnings benefited from an increase in the gross margin of its dental business, which accounts for approximately 75% of Patterson's sales, as well as further improvements in Patterson's overall cost structure.
Sales of Patterson Dental, Patterson's largest business, increased 6% to $499,727,000 in this year's first quarter.
 
 
 
Sales of the Webster Veterinary unit increased 10% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to $110,414,000. Sales of Patterson Medical, Patterson's rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, rose 10% to $91,262,000, which included contributions from the six branch offices that have been opened since last year's second quarter.
James W. Wiltz, president and chief executive officer, commented: "We are generally pleased by the first quarter performance of our dental business, which benefited from solid sales of consumable supplies and basic equipment. Demand also remained strong for digital radiography systems and software. In addition, we are experiencing solid demand, consistent with our expectations, from existing customers for the upgraded CEREC crown milling chamber that was introduced toward the end of fiscal 2007. The rate at which we receive the new milling chambers from the manufacturer will dictate the pace at which we can meet customer demand over the balance of fiscal 2008. We continue to believe that CEREC sales should strengthen as we progress through this fiscal year."
He continued: "Patterson's veterinary business benefited from continued sales growth of consumable supplies and a 30% increase in sales of equipment and IntraVet practice management software. Webster's strategic emphasis on equipment and software is a key part of the unit's ongoing effort to expand its full-service, value-added proposition. Patterson Medical also recorded another quarter of solid sales growth, due to the positive impact of its branch office strategy and other growth initiatives. Like Webster, Patterson Medical is focused on strengthening its value-added platform, making us confident this business is on course towards realizing its potential in the large and growing rehabilitation market."
Patterson is forecasting earnings of $0.39 to $0.41 per diluted share for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 ending October 27, 2007. Patterson also reiterated its previously issued fiscal 2008 financial guidance of $1.73 to $1.77 per diluted share.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Patterson's first quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . Listeners should go to this website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to download and install any necessary audio software. The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the first quarter conference call can be heard through August 30, 2007 by dialing 1-303-590-3000 and providing the 11095621 confirmation code.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


