FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20080324164105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debt Financing
On March 19, 2008, Patterson Companies, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Note Purchase Agreement dated as of the same date among Patterson Companies, Inc., Patterson Medical Holdings, Inc., Patterson Medical Supply, Inc., Patterson Dental Holdings, Inc., Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc. and Webster Management, LP, as borrowers, and various private lenders.
Under this Note Purchase Agreement, the Company issued fixed-rate Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $450,000,000 consisting of (i) $50,000,000 4.63% Senior Notes, Series A-1, due March 25, 2013; (ii) $250,000,000 5.17% Senior Notes, Series A-2, due March 25, 2015; and (iii) $150,000,000 5.75% Senior Notes, Series A-3, due March 25, 2018.
On March 20, 2008, the Company entered into a Term Loan Credit Agreement among Patterson Companies, Inc., as the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time parties hereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association ( "JPMorgan"), as Administrative Agent.
The Term Loan Credit Agreement provides for a term loan of $75,000,000, which was funded on March 20, 2008, and which matures on March 20, 2013. The term loan bears interest at a floating rate based on LIBOR plus a margin which can range from 0.50% to 1.25%.
The proceeds from the Note Purchase Agreement and the Term Loan Credit Agreement (collectively, the "Agreements") are being used to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock, to repay borrowings under the Company's existing revolving line of credit and for general corporate purposes.
In the event of a default by the Company under the Agreements, any outstanding obligations under the Agreements may become due and payable immediately.
The above description of the Agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreements, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Share Repurchases
On March 19, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with JPMorgan to repurchase $250,000,000 of its common stock under an accelerated share repurchase program ("ASR"). The Company received approximately 6.3 million shares under the ASR. The final number of shares to be delivered by JPMorgan under the ASR will depend on prevailing market conditions and is based on the difference between the initial purchase price per share and a volume weighted average price of the Company's common stock, minus a set discount, during a period of up to six months. Under terms of the ASR, the Company may receive additional shares of common stock from JPMorgan or may be required to deliver shares or cash to JPMorgan. The text of the ASR agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
As a result of the ASR transaction and open-market purchases made since late November 2007, the Company has now repurchased approximately 18 million shares under its previously announced 25 million share repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors. As of March 20, 2008, the Company had approximately 122 million shares outstanding. This amount includes 3.7 million unallocated shares held by the Company's ESOP which are not considered outstanding in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the provisions of SOP 93-6, ""
Employers' Accounting for Stock Ownership Plans
.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by herein by reference.
 
On March 24, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the events described above. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
CONFORMED COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SERIES A-1 PPN: 70342@ AA6
SERIES A-2 PPN: 70342@ AB4
SERIES A-3 PPN: 70342@ AC2
 
 
 
 
 
Dated as of March 19, 2008
TO EACH OF THE PURCHASERS LISTED IN
THE ATTACHED SCHEDULE A:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
PATTERSON COMPANIES, INC., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), PATTERSON MEDICAL HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Medical Holdings"), PATTERSON MEDICAL SUPPLY, INC., a Minnesota corporation ("Patterson Medical"), PATTERSON DENTAL HOLDINGS, INC., a Minnesota corporation ("Dental Holdings"), PATTERSON DENTAL SUPPLY, INC., a Minnesota corporation ("PDSI"), WEBSTER VETERINARY SUPPLY, INC., a Minnesota corporation ("Webster"), and WEBSTER MANAGEMENT, LP, a Minnesota limited partnership ("Webster Management"), jointly and severally agree with you as follows:
1. AUTHORIZATION OF NOTES.
1.1. The Notes.
The Obligors have authorized the issue and sale of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Senior Notes consisting of (i) $50,000,000 aggregate principal amount of their 4.63% Senior Notes, Series A-1, due March 25, 2013 (the "Series A-1 Notes"); (ii) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of their 5.17% Senior Notes, Series A-2, due March 25, 2015 (the "Series A-2 Notes"); and (iii) $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of
their 5.75% Senior Notes, Series A-3, due March 25, 2018 (the "Series A-3 Notes" and, collectively with the Series A-1 Notes and the Series A-2 Notes, the "Notes," such term to include any such notes issued in substitution therefor pursuant to Section 13 of this Agreement). The Notes shall be substantially in the forms set out in Exhibits 1(a) through 1(c), with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by you and the Company. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Schedule B; references to a "Schedule" or an "Exhibit" are, unless otherwise specified, to a Schedule or an Exhibit attached to this Agreement.
1.2. Additional Interest.
If the Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio at any time exceeds 3.50 to 1.00, as evidenced by an Officer's Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 7.2(a), the interest rate payable on the Notes shall be increased by 0.75% (the "Incremental Interest"). Such Incremental Interest shall begin to accrue on the first day of the fiscal quarter following the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Certificate was delivered, and shall continue to accrue until the Company has provided an Officer's Certificate pursuant to Section 7.2(a) demonstrating that, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Certificate is delivered, the Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio is not more than 3.50 to 1.00. In the event such Officer's Certificate is delivered, the Incremental Interest shall cease to accrue on the last day of the fiscal quarter in respect of which such Certificate is delivered.
2. SALE AND PURCHASE OF NOTES.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Obligors will issue and sell to you and each of the other purchasers named in Schedule A (the "Other Purchasers"), and you and the Other Purchasers will purchase from the Obligors, at the Closing provided for in Section 3, Notes in the principal amount and series specified opposite your names in Schedule A at the purchase price of 100% of the principal amount thereof. Your obligation hereunder and the obligations of the Other Purchasers are several and not joint obligations and you shall have no liability to any Person for the performance or non-performance by any Other Purchaser hereunder.
3. CLOSING.
The sale and purchase of the Notes to be purchased by you and the Other Purchasers shall occur at the offices of Foley & Lardner LLP, 321 North Clark Street, Suite 2800, Chicago, Illinois 60610-4764, at 9:00 a.m., Chicago time, at a closing (the "Closing") on March 19, 2008 or on such other Business Day thereafter on or prior to April 15, 2008 as may be agreed upon by the Company and you and the Other Purchasers. At the Closing the Obligors will deliver to you the Notes to be purchased by you in the form of a single Note (or such greater number of Notes in denominations of at least $100,000 as you may request) dated the date of the Closing and registered in your name (or in the name of your nominee), against delivery by you to the Obligors or their order of immediately available funds in the amount of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company (for the benefit of the Obligors) to account number 1731 0172 5153 at US Bank National Association, Minneapolis Office, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, MN 55402, ABA No. 091000022. If at the Closing any Obligor fails to tender such Notes to you as provided
 
above in this Section 3, or any of the conditions specified in Section 4 shall not have been fulfilled to your satisfaction, you shall, at your election, be relieved of all further obligations under this Agreement, without thereby waiving any rights you may have by reason of such failure or such nonfulfillment.
4. CONDITIONS TO CLOSING.
Your obligation to purchase and pay for the Notes to be sold to you at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment to your satisfaction, prior to or at the Closing, of the following conditions:
4.1. Representations and Warranties.
The representations and warranties of the Obligors in this Agreement shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
4.2. Performance; No Default.
The Obligors shall have performed and complied with all agreements and conditions contained in this Agreement required to be performed or complied with by them prior to or at the Closing and after giving effect to the issue and sale of the Notes (and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated by Section 5.14) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary shall have entered into any transaction since the date of the Memorandum that would have been prohibited by Section 10 had such Section applied since such date.
4.3. Compliance Certificates.
(a) . Each Obligor shall have delivered to you an Officer's Certificate, dated the date of the Closing, certifying that the conditions specified in Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.9 have been fulfilled.
Officer's Certificate
(b) . Each Obligor shall have delivered to you a certificate certifying as to the resolutions attached thereto and other corporate proceedings relating to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Notes and the Agreement.
Secretary's Certificate
4.4. Opinions of Counsel.
You shall have received opinions in form and substance satisfactory to you, dated the date of the Closing (a) from Briggs and Morgan and from Matthew L. Levitt, Esq., counsel to the Obligors, covering the matters set forth in Exhibit 4.4(a) and covering such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated hereby as you or your counsel may reasonably request (and the Obligors instruct their counsel to deliver such opinion to you) and (b) from Foley & Lardner LLP, your special counsel in connection with such transactions, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit 4.4(b) and covering such other matters incident to such transactions as you may reasonably request.
 
4.5. Purchase Permitted By Applicable Law, etc.
On the date of the Closing your purchase of Notes shall (i) be permitted by the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction to which you are subject, without recourse to provisions (such as Section 1405(a)(8) of the New York Insurance Law) permitting limited investments by insurance companies without restriction as to the character of the particular investment, (ii) not violate any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation U, T or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) and (iii) not subject you to any tax, penalty or liability under or pursuant to any applicable law or regulation, which law or regulation was not in effect on the date hereof. If requested by you, you shall have received an Officer's Certificate certifying as to such matters of fact as you may reasonably specify to enable you to determine whether such purchase is so permitted.
4.6. Sale of Other Notes.
Contemporaneously with the Closing the Obligors shall sell to the Other Purchasers and the Other Purchasers shall purchase the Notes to be purchased by them at the Closing as specified in Schedule A.
4.7. Payment of Special Counsel Fees.
Without limiting the provisions of Section 15.1, the Obligors shall have paid on or before the Closing the fees, charges and disbursements of your special counsel referred to in Section 4.4, to the extent reflected in a statement of such counsel rendered to the Obligors at least one Business Day prior to the Closing.
4.8. Private Placement Number.
A Private Placement Number issued by Standard & Poor's CUSIP Service Bureau (in cooperation with the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) shall have been obtained by Foley & Lardner LLP for each series of the Notes.
4.9. Changes in Corporate Structure.
Except as specified in Schedule 4.9, no Obligor shall have changed its jurisdiction of organization or been a party to any merger or consolidation and shall not have succeeded to all or any substantial part of the liabilities of any other entity, at any time following the date of the most recent financial statements referred to in Schedule 5.5.
4.10. Funding Instructions.
At least three Business Days prior to the date of the Closing, you shall have received written instructions signed by a Responsible Officer on letterhead of the Company confirming the information specified in Section 3 including (i) the name and address of the transferee bank, (ii) such transferee bank's ABA number and (iii) the account name and number into which the purchase price for the Notes is to be deposited.
 
4.11. Credit Agreement.
The Obligors shall have amended the Credit Agreement to permit the issuance and sale of the Notes and you shall have received a copy of a fully executed counterpart of such amendment.
4.12. Term Loan Agreement.
The Obligors shall deliver a fully executed copy of the Term Loan Agreement containing covenants no more onerous than those in the Credit Agreement promptly following execution thereof.
4.13. Proceedings and Documents.
All corporate or partnership and other proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all documents and instruments incident to such transactions shall be satisfactory to you and your special counsel, and you and your special counsel shall have received all such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as you or they may reasonably request.
5. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY.
Each Obligor represents and warrants to you that:
5.1. Organization; Power and Authority.
Each Obligor is a corporation or limited partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or foreign limited partnership and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each Obligor has the corporate or partnership power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Notes and to perform the provisions hereof and thereof.
5.2. Authorization, etc.
This Agreement and the Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or partnership action on the part of each Obligor, and this Agreement constitutes, and upon execution and delivery thereof each Note will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Obligor enforceable against each Obligor in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
5.3. Disclosure.
The Obligors, through their agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., have delivered to you and each Other Purchaser a copy of a Confidential Private Placement Memorandum, dated February 2008, including the Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended April 28, 2007 and April 29, 2006, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended January 26, 2008 and October 27 and July 28, 2007 (the "Memorandum"), relating to the transactions contemplated hereby. The Memorandum fairly describes, in all material respects, the general nature of the business and principal properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.3, this Agreement, the Memorandum, the documents, certificates or other writings delivered to you by or on behalf of the Obligors in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the financial statements listed in Schedule 5.5, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. Except as disclosed in the Memorandum or as expressly described in Schedule 5.3, or in one of the documents, certificates or other writings identified therein, or in the financial statements listed in Schedule 5.5, since April 28, 2007, there has been no change in the financial condition, operations, business or properties of the Company or any Subsidiary except changes that individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no fact known to any Obligor that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that has not been set forth herein or in the Memorandum or in the other documents, certificates and other writings delivered to you by or on behalf of the Obligors specifically for use in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
5.4. Organization and Ownership of Shares of Subsidiaries; Affiliates.
(a) Schedule 5.4 contains (except as noted therein) complete and correct lists of: (i) the Company's Subsidiaries, showing, as to each Subsidiary, the correct name thereof, the jurisdiction of its organization, and the percentage of shares of each class of its capital stock or similar equity interests outstanding owned by the Company and each other Subsidiary, (ii) the Company's Affiliates, other than Subsidiaries, and (iii) the Company's directors and senior officers.
(b) All of the outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of each Subsidiary shown in Schedule 5.4 as being owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company or another Subsidiary free and clear of any Lien (except as otherwise disclosed in Schedule 5.4).
(c) Each Subsidiary identified in Schedule 5.4 is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Subsidiary has the corporate or other power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease and to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact.
 
(d) No Subsidiary is a party to, or otherwise subject to, any legal restriction or any agreement (other than this Agreement, the agreements listed on Schedule 5.4 and customary limitations imposed by corporate or limited partnership law statutes) restricting the ability of such Subsidiary to pay dividends out of profits or make any other similar distributions of profits to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that owns outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of such Subsidiary.
5.5. Financial Statements.
The Company has delivered to you and each Other Purchaser copies of the financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 5.5. All of said financial statements (including in each case the related schedules and notes) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the respective dates specified in such Schedule and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the respective periods so specified and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods involved except as set forth in the notes thereto (subject, in the case of any interim financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments).
5.6. Compliance with Laws, Other Instruments, etc.
The execution, delivery and performance by each Obligor of this Agreement and the Notes will not (i) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, corporate charter or by-laws, or any other agreement or instrument to which any Obligor or any other Subsidiary is bound or by which any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (ii) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or (iii) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to any Obligor or any other Subsidiary.
5.7. Governmental Authorizations, etc.
No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by any Obligor of this Agreement or the Notes.
5.8. Litigation; Observance of Agreements, Statutes and Orders.
(a) Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.8, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of any Obligor, threatened against or affecting any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or any property of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary in any court or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) Neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary is in default under any term of any agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound, or any order, judgment, decree or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority or is in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation (including Environmental Laws and the USA Patriot Act) of any Governmental Authority, which default or violation, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.9. Taxes.
The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all tax returns that are required to have been filed in any jurisdiction, and have paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments levied upon them or their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent, except for any taxes and assessments (i) the amount of which is not individually or in the aggregate Material or (ii) the amount, applicability or validity of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, has established adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP. The Company knows of no basis for any other tax or assessment that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of Federal, state or other taxes for all fiscal periods are adequate. The Federal income tax liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries have been determined by the Internal Revenue Service and paid for all fiscal years up to and including the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005.
5.10. Title to Property; Leases.
The Company and its Subsidiaries have good and sufficient title to their respective properties that individually or in the aggregate are Material, including all such properties reflected in the most recent audited balance sheet referred to in Section 5.5 or purported to have been acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary after said date (except as sold or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business), in each case free and clear of Liens prohibited by this Agreement. All leases that individually or in the aggregate are Material are valid and subsisting and are in full force and effect in all material respects.
5.11. Licenses, Permits, etc.
Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.11,
(a) the Company and its Subsidiaries own or possess all licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks and trade names, or rights thereto, that individually or in the aggregate are Material, without known conflict with the rights of others;
 
(b) to the best knowledge of each Obligor, no product of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary infringes in any material respect any license, permit, franchise, authorization, patent, copyright, service mark, trademark, trade name or other right owned by any other Person; and
(c) to the best knowledge of each Obligor, there is no Material violation by any Person of any right of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary with respect to any patent, copyright, service mark, trademark, trade name or other right owned or used by the any Obligor or any other Subsidiary.
5.12. Compliance with ERISA.
(a) The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have operated and administered each Plan in compliance with all applicable laws except for such instances of noncompliance as have not resulted in and could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3 of ERISA), and no event, transaction or condition has occurred or exists that could reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence of any such liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, in either case pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or to such penalty or excise tax provisions or to Section 401(a)(29) or 412 of the Code, other than such liabilities or Liens as would not be individually or in the aggregate Material.
(b) The present value of the aggregate benefit liabilities under each of the Plans (other than Multiemployer Plans), determined as of the end of such Plan's most recently ended plan year on the basis of the actuarial assumptions specified for funding purposes in such Plan's most recent actuarial valuation report, did not exceed the aggregate current value of the assets of such Plan allocable to such benefit liabilities. The term "benefit liabilities" has the meaning specified in section 4001 of ERISA and the terms "current value" and "present value" have the meaning specified in section 3 of ERISA.
(c) The Company and its ERISA Affiliates have not incurred withdrawal liabilities (and are not subject to contingent withdrawal liabilities) under section 4201 or 4204 of ERISA in respect of Multiemployer Plans that individually or in the aggregate are Material.
(d) The expected postretirement benefit obligation (determined as of the last day of the Company's most recently ended fiscal year in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 106, without regard to liabilities attributable to continuation coverage mandated by section 4980B of the Code) of the Company and its Subsidiaries is not Material.
(e) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Notes hereunder will not involve any transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of
 
section 406 of ERISA or in connection with which a tax could be imposed pursuant to section 4975(c)(1)(A)-(D) of the Code. The representation by the Company in the first sentence of this Section 5.12(e) is made in reliance upon and subject to the accuracy of your representation in Section 6.2 as to the sources of the funds used to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by you.
5.13. Private Offering by the Company.
Neither any Obligor nor anyone acting on its behalf has offered the Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any person other than you and the Other Purchasers and not more than 31 other Institutional Investors, each of which has been offered the Notes at a private sale for investment. Neither any Obligor nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
5.14. Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations.
The Obligors will apply the proceeds of the sale of the Notes to refinance Debt of the Company as set forth in Schedule 5.14 and for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company's Capital Stock and business or asset acquisitions. No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 221) so as to involve any Obligor or any holder of Notes in a violation of such Regulation (or so as to require any holder of Notes to make any filing under such Regulation), or for the purpose of buying or carrying or trading in any securities under such circumstances as to involve any Obligor in a violation of Regulation X of said Board (12 CFR 224) or to involve any broker or dealer in a violation of Regulation T of said Board (12 CFR 220). Margin stock does not constitute more than 10% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the Obligors do not have any present intention that margin stock will constitute more than 10% of the value of such assets. As used in this Section, the terms "margin stock" and "purpose of buying or carrying" shall have the meanings assigned to them in said Regulation U.
5.15. Existing Debt; Future Liens.
(a) Except as described therein, Schedule 5.15 sets forth a complete and correct list of all outstanding Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of March 1, 2008, since which date there has been no Material change in the amounts, interest rates, sinking funds, installment payments or maturities of the Debt of the Company or its Subsidiaries. Neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary is in default and no waiver of default is currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any Debt of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary and no event or condition exists with respect to any Debt of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would permit) one or more Persons to cause such Debt to become due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment.
 
(b) Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.15, neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary has agreed or consented to cause or permit in the future (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to be subject to a Lien not permitted by Section 10.4.
5.16. Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Anti-Terrorism Order, etc.
Neither the sale of the Notes by the Obligors hereunder nor their use of the proceeds thereof will violate (a) the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, (b) any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto, (c) the Anti-Terrorism Order or (d) the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997, as amended. Without limiting the foregoing, neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary (i) is a blocked person described in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (ii) engages in any dealings or transactions, or is otherwise associated, with any such person.
5.17. Status under Certain Statutes.
Neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary is subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, the ICC Termination Act, as amended, or the Federal Power Act, as amended.
5.18. Environmental Matters.
Neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary has knowledge of any claim or has received any notice of any claim, and no proceeding has been instituted raising any claim against any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or any of their respective real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them or other assets, alleging any damage to the environment or violation of any Environmental Laws, except, in each case, such as could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except as otherwise disclosed to you in writing,
(a) neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary has knowledge of any facts which would give rise to any claim, public or private, of violation of Environmental Laws or damage to the environment emanating from, occurring on or in any way related to real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them or to other assets or their use, except, in each case, such as could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(b) neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary has stored any Hazardous Materials on real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them and has not disposed of any Hazardous Materials in a manner contrary to any Environmental Laws in each case in any manner that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
(c) all buildings on all real properties now owned, leased or operated by any Obligor or any other Subsidiary are in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, except where failure to comply could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
5.19. Solvency of Obligors.
After giving effect to the transactions contemplated herein, (i) the present value of the assets of each Obligor, at a fair valuation, is in excess of the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts as said debts become absolute and matured, (ii) each Obligor has received reasonably equivalent value for issuing and selling the Notes, (iii) the property remaining in the hands of each Obligor is not an unreasonably small capital, and (iv) each Obligor is able to pay its debts as they mature.
6. REPRESENTATIONS OF THE PURCHASERS.
6.1. Purchase for Investment.
You represent that you are purchasing the Notes for your own account or for one or more separate accounts maintained by you or for the account of one or more pension or trust funds and not with a view to the distribution thereof, provided that the disposition of your or their property shall at all times be within your or their control. You understand that the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may be resold only if registered pursuant to the provisions of the Securities Act or if an exemption from registration is available, except under circumstances where neither such registration nor such an exemption is required by law, and that the Obligors are not required to register the Notes. You represent that you are an "accredited investor" within the meaning of subparagraph (a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Rule 501 of Regulation D under the Securities Act
6.2. Source of Funds.
You represent that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to each source of funds (a "Source") to be used by you to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by you hereunder:
(a) the Source is an "insurance company general account" (as the term is defined in the United States Department of Labor's Prohibited Transaction Exemption ("PTE") 95-60) in respect of which the reserves and liabilities (as defined by the annual statement for life insurance companies approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the "NAIC Annual Statement") for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any employee benefit plan together with the amount of the reserves and liabilities for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any other employee benefit plans maintained by the same employer (or affiliate thereof as defined in PTE 95-60) or by the same employee organization in the general account do not exceed 10% of the total reserves and liabilities of the general account (exclusive of separate account liabilities) plus surplus as set forth in the NAIC Annual Statement filed with such Purchaser's state of domicile; or
(b) the Source is a separate account that is maintained solely in connection with such Purchaser's fixed contractual obligations under which the amounts payable, or
 
credited, to any employee benefit plan (or its related trust) that has any interest in such separate account (or to any participant or beneficiary of such plan (including any annuitant)) are not affected in any manner by the investment performance of the separate account; or
(c) the Source is either (i) an insurance company pooled separate account, within the meaning of PTE 90-1 (issued January 29, 1990), or (ii) a bank collective investment fund, within the meaning of PTE 91-38 (issued July 12, 1991) and, except as you have disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this paragraph (c), no employee benefit plan or group of plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization beneficially owns more than 10% of all assets allocated to such pooled separate account or collective investment fund; or
(d) the Source constitutes assets of an "investment fund" (within the meaning of Part V of PTE 84-14 (the "QPAM Exemption") managed by a "qualified professional asset manager" or "QPAM" (within the meaning of Part V of the QPAM Exemption), no employee benefit plan's assets that are included in such investment fund, when combined with the assets of all other employee benefit plans established or maintained by the same employer or by an affiliate (within the meaning of Section V(c)(1) of the QPAM Exemption) of such employer or by the same employee organization and managed by such QPAM, exceed 20% of the total client assets managed by such QPAM, the conditions of Part I(c) and (g) of the QPAM Exemption are satisfied, neither the QPAM nor a person controlling or controlled by the QPAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section V(e) of the QPAM Exemption) owns a 5% or more interest in the Company and (i) the identity of such QPAM and (ii) the names of all employee benefit plans whose assets are included in such investment fund have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (d); or
(e) the Source constitutes assets of a "plan(s)" (within the meaning of Section IV of PTE 96-23 (the "INHAM Exemption") managed by an "in-house asset manager" or "INHAM" (within the meaning of Part IV of the INHAM exemption), the conditions of Part I(a), (g) and (h) of the INHAM Exemption are satisfied, neither the INHAM nor a person controlling or controlled by the INHAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section IV(h) of the INHAM Exemption) owns a 5% or more interest in the Company and (i) the identity of such INHAM and (ii) the name(s) of the employee benefit plan(s) whose assets constitute the Source have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (e); or
(f) the Source is a governmental plan; or
(g) the Source is one or more employee benefit plans, or a separate account or trust fund comprised of one or more employee benefit plans, each of which has been identified to the Company in writing pursuant to this paragraph (g); or
(h) the Source does not include assets of any employee benefit plan, other than a plan exempt from the coverage of ERISA.
 
As used in this Section 6.2, the terms "employee benefit plan", "governmental plan" and "separate account" shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
7. INFORMATION AS TO COMPANY.
7.1. Financial and Business Information
The Company will deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
(a)  within 60 days after the end of each quarterly fiscal period in each fiscal year of the Company (other than the last quarterly fiscal period of each such fiscal year), duplicate copies of,
Quarterly Statements
(i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter,
(ii) consolidated statements of income of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such quarter and (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarter, and
(iii) consolidated statements of cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such quarter or (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarter,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding periods in the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP applicable to quarterly financial statements generally, and certified by a Senior Financial Officer as fairly presenting, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported on and their results of operations and cash flows, subject to changes resulting from year-end adjustments, provided that delivery within the time period specified above of copies of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q prepared in compliance with the requirements therefor and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(a);
(b)  within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, duplicate copies of,
Annual Statements
(i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as at the end of such year, and
(ii) consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such year,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP, and reported on by an opinion of independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
 
the financial position of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries being reported upon and their results of operations and cash flows and have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, and that the examination of such accountants in connection with such financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and that such audit provides a reasonable basis for such opinion in the circumstances, provided that the delivery within the time period specified above of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year (together with the Company's annual report to shareholders, if any, prepared pursuant to Rule 14a-3 under the Exchange Act) prepared in accordance with the requirements therefor and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this Section 7.1(b);
(c)  promptly upon their becoming available, one copy of (i) each financial statement, report, notice or proxy statement sent by any Obligor or any other Subsidiary to public securities holders generally, and (ii) each regular or periodic report, registration statement other than registration statements on Form S-8 (without exhibits except as expressly requested by such holder), or other material filed by any Obligor or any other Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
SEC and Other Reports
(d)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becoming aware of the existence of any Default or Event of Default or that any Person has given any notice or taken any action with respect to a claimed default hereunder or that any Person has given notice or taken any action with respect to a claimed default of the type referred to in Section 11(f), a written notice specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Obligors are taking or propose to take with respect thereto;
Notice of Default or Event of Default
(e)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becoming aware of any of the following, a written notice setting forth the nature thereof and the action, if any, that the Company or an ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto:
ERISA Matters
(i) with respect to any Plan, any reportable event, as defined in section 4043(b) of ERISA and the regulations thereunder, for which notice thereof has not been waived pursuant to such regulations as in effect on the date hereof; or
(ii) the taking by the PBGC of steps to institute, or the threatening by the PBGC of the institution of, proceedings under section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan, or the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of a notice from a Multiemployer Plan that such action has been taken by the PBGC with respect to such Multiemployer Plan; or
(iii) any event, transaction or condition that could result in the incurrence of any liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating
 
to employee benefit plans, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or such penalty or excise tax provisions, if such liability or Lien, taken together with any other such liabilities or Liens then existing, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(f)  promptly, and in any event within 30 days of receipt thereof, copies of any notice to any Obligor or any other Subsidiary from any Federal or state Governmental Authority relating to any order, ruling, statute or other law or regulation that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
Notices from Governmental Authority
(g)  with reasonable promptness, such other data and information relating to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary (including actual copies of the Company's Forms 10-Q and Forms 10-K) or relating to the ability of any Obligor to perform its obligations hereunder and under the Notes as from time to time may be reasonably requested by any such holder of Notes.
Requested Information
7.2. Officer's Certificate.
Each set of financial statements delivered to a holder of Notes pursuant to Section 7.1(a) or (b) shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer setting forth:
(a)  the information (including detailed calculations and reconciliations to GAAP if Agreement Accounting Principles differ from GAAP at the time such compliance certificate is delivered) required in order to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of Section 10.1 through Section 10.8, inclusive, during the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished (including with respect to each such Section, where applicable, the calculations of the maximum or minimum amount, ratio or percentage, as the case may be, permissible under the terms of such Sections, and the calculation of the amount, ratio or percentage then in existence); and
Covenant Compliance
(b)  a statement that such officer has reviewed the relevant terms hereof and has made, or caused to be made, under his or her supervision, a review of the transactions and conditions of the Company and its Subsidiaries from the beginning of the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished to the date of the certificate and that such review shall not have disclosed the existence during such period of any condition or event that constitutes a Default or an Event of Default or, if any such condition or event existed or exists (including any such event or condition resulting from the failure of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary to comply with any Environmental Law), specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Company shall have taken or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Event of Default
 
7.3. Electronic Delivery.
Financial statements and officers' certificates required to be delivered by the Company pursuant to Sections 7.1(a), (b) or (c) and Section 7.2 shall be deemed to have been delivered if (i) such financial statements satisfying the requirements of Section 7.1(a) or (b) and related certificate satisfying the requirements of Section 7.2 are delivered to you and each other holder of Notes by e-mail or (ii) the Company shall have timely filed such Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, satisfying the requirements of Section 7.1(a) or (b) as the case may be, with the SEC on "EDGAR" and shall have made such Form and the related certificate satisfying the requirements of Section 7.2 available on its home page on the worldwide web (at the date of this Agreement located at http://www.pattersoncompanies.com) or (iii) such financial statements satisfying the requirements of Section 7.1(a) or (b) and related certificate satisfying the requirements of Section 7.2 are timely posted by or on behalf of the Company on IntraLinks or on any other similar website to which each holder of Notes has free access or (iv) the Company shall have filed any of the items referred to in Section 7.1(c) with the SEC on "EDGAR" and shall have made such items available on its home page on the worldwide web or if any of such items are timely posted by or on behalf of the Company on IntraLinks or on any other similar website to which each holder of Notes has free access; provided however, that in the case of any of clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) the Company shall concurrently with such filing or posting give notice to each holder of Notes of such posting or filing and provided further, that upon request of any holder, the Company will thereafter deliver written copies of such forms, financial statements and certificates to such holder.
7.4. Inspection.
The Company will permit the representatives of each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
(a)  if no Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of such holder and upon reasonable prior notice to the Company, to visit the principal executive office of the Company, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Subsidiaries with the Company's officers, and (with the consent of the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to visit the other offices and properties of the Company and each Subsidiary, all at such reasonable times and as often as may be reasonably requested in writing; and
No Default
(b)  if a Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of the Company, to visit and inspect any of the offices or properties of the Company or any Subsidiary, to examine all their respective books of account, records, reports and other papers, to make copies and extracts therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances, and accounts with their respective officers and independent public accountants (and by this provision the Company authorizes said accountants to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Subsidiaries), all at such times and as often as may be requested.
Default
 
8. PREPAYMENT OF THE NOTES.
8.1. No Scheduled Prepayments.
No regularly scheduled prepayments are due on the Notes prior to their stated maturity.
8.2. Optional Prepayments.
(a) . The Obligors may, at their option, upon notice as provided below, prepay at any time all, or from time to time any part of, one or more series of the Notes in an amount not less than $1,000,000 in the aggregate in the case of a partial prepayment, at 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, plus the Make-Whole Amount determined for the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount. The Company will give each holder of each series of the Notes to be prepaid written notice of each optional prepayment under this Section 8.2(a) not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such prepayment. Each such notice shall specify such date, the aggregate principal amount of each series of the Notes to be prepaid on such date, the principal amount of each Note held by such holder to be prepaid (determined in accordance with Section 8.4), and the interest to be paid on the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount being prepaid, and shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer as to the estimated Make-Whole Amount due in connection with such prepayment (calculated as if the date of such notice were the date of the prepayment), setting forth the details of such computation. Two Business Days prior to such prepayment, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer specifying the calculation of such Make-Whole Amount as of the specified prepayment date.
The Notes
(b) .
Offer to Prepay at Par Upon Certain Sales of Assets
(i) . In the event of any Debt Prepayment Application under Section 10.7 of this Agreement, the Obligors will, within 10 days of the occurrence of the Transfer (a "Debt Prepayment Transfer") in respect of which an offer to prepay the Notes (the "Prepayment Offer") is being made to comply with the requirements for a Debt Prepayment Application (as set forth in the definition thereof), give notice of such Debt Prepayment Transfer to each holder of Notes. Such notice shall contain, and shall constitute, an irrevocable offer to prepay, at the election of each holder, a portion of the Notes held by such holder equal to such holder's Ratable Portion of the Net Proceeds Amount in respect of such Debt Prepayment Transfer on a date specified in such notice (the "Transfer Prepayment Date") that is not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days after the date of such notice.
Notice and Offer
(ii) . To accept such Prepayment Offer, a holder of Notes shall cause a notice of such acceptance to be delivered to the Company not later than 10 days prior to the Transfer Prepayment Date. Failure to accept such offer in writing not later than 10 days prior to the Transfer
Acceptance and Payment
 
Prepayment Date shall be deemed to be rejection of the Prepayment Offer. If so accepted by any holder of a Note, such Prepayment Offer equal to not less than such holder's Ratable Portion of the Net Proceeds Amount in respect of such Debt Prepayment Transfer, together with any additional amount offered to and accepted by such holder pursuant to the following sentence shall be due and payable on the Transfer Prepayment Date. If any holder of Notes fails to accept such Prepayment Offer, such holder's Ratable Portion of the Net Proceeds Amount shall be offered pro rata to each holder of Notes that has accepted such Prepayment Offer. A Prepayment Offer pursuant to this Section 8.2(b) shall be made at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes being so prepaid, together with interest on such principal amount then being prepaid accrued to the Transfer Prepayment Date.
(iii) . Each offer to prepay the Notes pursuant to this Section 8.2(b) shall be accompanied by a certificate, executed by a Senior Financial Officer and dated the date of such offer, specifying:
Officer's Certificate
(A) the Transfer Prepayment Date and the Net Proceeds Amount in respect of the applicable Debt Prepayment Transfer;
(B) that such offer is being made pursuant to Section 8.2(b) and Section 10.7 of this Agreement;
(C) the principal amount of each Note offered to be prepaid;
(D) the interest that would be due on each such Note offered to be prepaid, accrued to the date fixed for payment; and
(E) in reasonable detail, the nature of the Transfer giving rise to such Debt Prepayment Transfer.
(c) . Anything in Section 8.2(a) to the contrary notwithstanding, during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default the Obligors may prepay less than all of the outstanding Notes pursuant to Section 8.2(a) only if such prepayment is allocated among all of the Notes at the time outstanding in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective unpaid principal amounts thereof not theretofore called for prepayment.
Prepayments During Defaults or Events of Defaults
(d) . Promptly after each prepayment date under Section 8.2(a) or Transfer Prepayment Date under Section 8.2(b) and the making of all prepayments contemplated thereunder (and, in any event, within 30 days thereafter), the Company will deliver to each holder of Notes a certificate signed by a Senior Financial Officer containing a list of the then current holders of Notes (together with their addresses) and setting forth as to each such holder the outstanding principal amount of Notes held by such holder at such time.
Notice Concerning Status of Holders of Notes
 
8.3. Mandatory Offer to Prepay Upon Change of Control.
(a)  The Company will, within five Business Days after any Responsible Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of any Change of Control or Control Event, give notice of such Change of Control or Control Event to each holder of Notes unless notice in respect of such Change of Control (or the Change of Control contemplated by such Control Event) shall have been given pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 8.3. If a Change of Control has occurred, such notice shall contain and constitute an offer to prepay Notes as described in paragraph (c) of this Section 8.3 and shall be accompanied by the certificate described in paragraph (g) of this Section 8.3.
Notice of Change of Control or Control Event
(b)  The Company will not take any action that consummates or finalizes a Change of Control unless (i) at least 15 Business Days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of Notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay Notes accompanied by the certificate described in paragraph (g) of this Section 8.3, and (ii) subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) below, contemporaneously with such action, it prepays all Notes required to be prepaid in accordance with this Section 8.3.
Condition to Company Action
(c)  The offer to prepay Notes contemplated by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 8.3 shall be an offer to prepay, in accordance with and subject to this Section 8.3, all, but not less than all, of the Notes held by each holder (in this case only, "holder" in respect of any Note registered in the name of a nominee for a disclosed beneficial owner shall mean such beneficial owner) on a date specified in such offer (the "Proposed Prepayment Date"). If such Proposed Prepayment Date is in connection with an offer contemplated by paragraph (a) of this Section 8.3, such date shall be not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days after the date of such offer.
Offer to Prepay Notes
(d)  A holder of Notes may accept the offer to prepay made pursuant to this Section 8.3 by causing a notice of such acceptance to be delivered to the Company on or before the date specified in the certificate described in paragraph (g) of this Section 8.3. A failure by a holder of Notes to respond to an offer to prepay made pursuant to this Section 8.3, or to accept an offer as to all of the Notes held by the holder, within such time period shall be deemed to constitute rejection of such offer by such holder.
Acceptance; Rejection
(e)  Prepayment of the Notes to be prepaid pursuant to this Section 8.3 shall be at 100% of the outstanding principal amount of such Notes, together with interest on such Notes accrued to the date of prepayment and shall not require the payment of any Make-Whole Amount or prepayment premium. The prepayment shall be made on the Proposed Prepayment Date except as provided in paragraph (f) of this Section 8.3.
Prepayment
(f)  The obligation of the Company to prepay Notes pursuant to the offers required by paragraphs (a) and (b) and accepted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section 8.3 is subject to the occurrence of the
Deferral Pending Change of Control
 
Change of Control in respect of which such offers and acceptances shall have been made. In the event that such Change of Control does not occur on or prior to the Proposed Prepayment Date in respect thereof, the prepayment shall be deferred until and shall be made on the date on which such Change of Control occurs. The Company shall keep each holder of Notes reasonably and timely informed of (i) any such deferral of the date of prepayment, (ii) the date on which such Change of Control and the prepayment are expected to occur, and (iii) any determination by the Company that efforts to effect such Change of Control have ceased or been abandoned (in which case the offers and acceptances made pursuant to this Section 8.3 in respect of such Change of Control shall be deemed rescinded). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the prepayment has not been made within 90 days after such Proposed Prepayment Date by virtue of the deferral provided for in this Section 8.3(f), the Company shall make a new offer to prepay in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section 8.3.
(g)  Each offer to prepay the Notes pursuant to this Section 8.3 shall be accompanied by a certificate, executed by a Senior Financial Officer of the Company and dated the date of such offer, specifying: (i) the Proposed Prepayment Date, (ii) that such offer is made pursuant to this Section 8.3, (iii) the principal amount of each Note offered to be prepaid, (iv) the interest that would be due on each Note offered to be prepaid, accrued to the Proposed Prepayment Date, (v) that the conditions of this Section 8.3 have been fulfilled, (vi) in reasonable detail, the nature and date or proposed date of the Change of Control and (vii) the date by which any holder of a Note that wishes to accept such offer must deliver notice thereof to the Company, which date shall not be earlier than three Business Days prior to the Proposed Prepayment Date or, in the case of a prepayment pursuant to Section 8.3(b), the date of the action referred to in Section 8.3(b)(i).
Officer's Certificate
8.4. Allocation of Partial Prepayments.
In the case of each partial prepayment of Notes of a series pursuant to Section 8.2(a), the principal amount of the Notes of the series to be prepaid shall be allocated among all of the Notes of such series at the time outstanding in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective unpaid principal amounts thereof not theretofore called for prepayment.
8.5. Maturity; Surrender, etc.
In the case of each prepayment of Notes pursuant to this Section 8, the principal amount of each Note to be prepaid shall mature and become due and payable on the date fixed for such prepayment, together with interest on such principal amount accrued to such date and the applicable Make-Whole Amount, if any. From and after such date, unless the Obligors shall fail to pay such principal amount when so due and payable, together with the interest and Make-Whole Amount, if any, as aforesaid, interest on such principal amount shall cease to accrue. Any Note paid or prepaid in full shall be surrendered to the Company and canceled and shall not be reissued, and no Note shall be issued in lieu of any prepaid principal amount of any Note.
 
8.6. Purchase of Notes.
The Obligors will not and will not permit any Affiliate to purchase, redeem, prepay or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the outstanding Notes except upon the payment or prepayment of the Notes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes. The Company will promptly cancel all Notes acquired by any Obligor or any Affiliate pursuant to any payment, prepayment or purchase of Notes pursuant to any provision of this Agreement and no Notes may be issued in substitution or exchange for any such Notes.
8.7. Make-Whole Amount.
The term "" means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Discounted Value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to the Called Principal of such Note over the amount of such Called Principal, provided that the Make-Whole Amount may in no event be less than zero. For the purposes of determining the Make-Whole Amount, the following terms have the following meanings:
Make-Whole Amount
"" means, with respect to any Note, the principal of such Note that is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2(a) or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
Called Principal
"" means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, the amount obtained by discounting all Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to such Called Principal from their respective scheduled due dates to the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in accordance with accepted financial practice and at a discount factor (applied on the same periodic basis as that on which interest on the Notes is payable) equal to the Reinvestment Yield with respect to such Called Principal.
Discounted Value
"" means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, .50% over the yield to maturity implied by (i) the yields reported, as of 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, on the display designated as the "PX1 Screen" on the Bloomberg Financial Market Service (or such other display as may replace the PX1 Screen on Bloomberg Financial Market Service) for actively traded U.S. Treasury securities having a maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date, or (ii) if such yields are not reported as of such time or the yields reported as of such time are not ascertainable (including by way of interpolation), the Treasury Constant Maturity Series Yields reported, for the latest day for which such yields have been so reported as of the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) (or any comparable successor publication) for actively traded U.S. Treasury securities having a constant maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date. Such implied yield will be determined, if necessary, by (a) converting U.S. Treasury bill quotations to bond-equivalent yields in accordance with accepted financial practice and (b) interpolating linearly between (1) the actively traded U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and greater than the Remaining Average Life and (2) the actively traded U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and less than the Remaining Average Life.
Reinvestment Yield
 
"" means, with respect to any Called Principal, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) obtained by dividing (i) such Called Principal into (ii) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the principal component of each Remaining Scheduled Payment with respect to such Called Principal by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) that will elapse between the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal and the scheduled due date of such Remaining Scheduled Payment.
Remaining Average Life
"" means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, all payments of such Called Principal and interest thereon that would be due after the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal if no payment of such Called Principal were made prior to its scheduled due date, provided that if such Settlement Date is not a date on which interest payments are due to be made under the terms of the Notes, then the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued to such Settlement Date and required to be paid on such Settlement Date pursuant to Section 8.2(a) or 12.1.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means, with respect to the Called Principal of any Note, the date on which such Called Principal is to be prepaid pursuant to Section 8.2(a) or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Section 12.1, as the context requires.
Settlement Date
9. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS.
The Obligors, jointly and severally, covenant that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
9.1. Compliance with Law.
The Obligors will, and will cause each other Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations to which each of them is subject, including, without limitation, Environmental Laws, and will obtain and maintain in effect all licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of their respective properties or to the conduct of their respective businesses, in each case to the extent necessary to ensure that non-compliance with such laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations or failures to obtain or maintain in effect such licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
9.2. Insurance.
The Obligors will, and will cause each other Subsidiary to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurers, insurance with respect to their respective properties and businesses against such casualties and contingencies, of such types, on such terms and in such amounts (including deductibles, co-insurance and self-insurance, if adequate reserves are maintained with respect thereto) as is customary in the case of entities of established reputations engaged in the same or a similar business and similarly situated.
 
9.3. Maintenance of Properties.
The Obligors will, and will cause each other Subsidiary to, maintain and keep, or cause to be maintained and kept, their respective properties in good repair, working order and condition (other than ordinary wear and tear), so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, provided that this Section shall not prevent any Obligor or any other Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation and the maintenance of any of its properties if such discontinuance is desirable in the conduct of its business and the Company has concluded that such discontinuance could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
9.4. Payment of Taxes and Claims.
The Obligors will, and will cause each other Subsidiary to, file all income tax or similar tax returns required to be filed in any jurisdiction and to pay and discharge all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes, assessments, governmental charges, or levies imposed on them or any of their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent and all claims for which sums have become due and payable that have or might become a Lien on properties or assets of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary, provided that neither any Obligor nor any other Subsidiary need pay any such tax or assessment or claims if (i) the amount, applicability or validity thereof is contested by such Obligor or such Subsidiary on a timely basis in good faith and in appropriate proceedings, and an Obligor or another Subsidiary has established adequate reserves therefor in accordance with GAAP on its books or (ii) the nonpayment of all such taxes and assessments in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
9.5. Corporate Existence, etc.
Subject to Sections 10.6 and 10.7, each Obligor will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence. Subject to Sections 10.6 and 10.7, the Company will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence of each of its Subsidiaries (unless merged into the Company or a Subsidiary) and all rights and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries unless, in the good faith judgment of the Company, the termination of or failure to preserve and keep in full force and effect such corporate existence, right or franchise could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
9.6. Ranking of Notes.
The Notes and the Obligors' obligations under this Agreement will rank at least pari passu with all of the Obligors' outstanding unsecured Senior Debt.
 
9.7. Subsidiary Guaranty.
(a) . The Obligors will not permit any other Material Domestic Subsidiary to become a borrower under, or to directly or indirectly guarantee any obligations of any Obligor under, any Loan Agreement unless the Obligors cause such Subsidiary, concurrently therewith, to execute and deliver a guaranty in substantially the form of Exhibit 9.7 (the "Subsidiary Guaranty"), or, if such Subsidiary Guaranty has previously been delivered, to execute and deliver a Joinder to the Subsidiary Guaranty and deliver to each holder of Notes:
Subsidiary Guarantors
(i) copies of such directors' or other authorizing resolutions, charter, bylaws and other constitutive documents of such Subsidiary as the Required Holders may reasonably request; and
(ii) an opinion of counsel covering the authorization, execution, delivery, compliance with law, no conflict with other documents, no consents and enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty against such Subsidiary.
(b) . If at any time (i) the aggregate assets of all of the Company's Domestic Subsidiaries that are not Obligors or Subsidiary Guarantors exceeds 20% of Consolidated Total Assets, or (ii) the Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended of all of the Company's Domestic Subsidiaries that are not Obligors or Subsidiary Guarantors exceeds 20% of the Company's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, the Company will, within 30 days after its senior management becomes aware (or reasonably should have become aware) of such event, cause additional Domestic Subsidiaries to execute and deliver a Joinder to the Subsidiary Guaranty so that, after giving effect thereto, the threshold levels in clauses (i) and (ii) above are not exceeded and shall deliver to each holder of Notes the documents listed in Section 9.7(a)(i) and (ii).
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
10. NEGATIVE COVENANTS.
The Obligors, jointly and severally, covenant that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
10.1. Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio.
The Company will not permit the Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, to be greater than 3.50 to 1.00; provided that, upon notice by the Obligors to the holders of Notes, as of the last day of each of the four consecutive fiscal quarters immediately following a Qualified Acquisition, such ratio may be greater than 3.50 to 1.00, but in no event greater than 4.00 to 1.00, if the Company pays the additional interest provided for in Section 1.2.
 
10.2. Interest Coverage.
The Company will not permit the ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (in each case for the Company's then most recently completed four fiscal quarters) to be less than 2.50 to 1.00 at any time.
10.3. Priority Debt.
The Company will not permit Priority Debt to exceed 15% of Consolidated Total Assets (as of the end of the Company's then most recently completed fiscal quarter) at any time.
10.4. Liens.
The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, permit to exist, create, assume or incur, directly or indirectly, any Lien on its properties or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
(a) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges not then due and delinquent or the nonpayment of which is permitted by Section 9.4;
(b) any attachment or judgment Lien, unless the judgment it secures has not, within 60 days after the entry thereof, been discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or has not been discharged within 60 days after the expiration of any such stay;
(c) Liens incidental to the conduct of business or the ownership of properties and assets (including landlords', lessors', carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's and other similar Liens) and Liens to secure the performance of bids, tenders, leases or trade contracts, or to secure statutory obligations (including obligations under workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation), surety or appeal bonds or other Liens of like general nature incurred in the ordinary course of business and not in connection with the borrowing of money;
(d) encumbrances in the nature of leases, subleases, zoning restrictions, easements, rights of way, minor survey exceptions and other rights and restrictions of record on the use of real property and defects in title arising or incurred in the ordinary course of business, which, individually and in the aggregate, do not materially impair the use of the property or assets subject thereto by the Company or such Subsidiary in their business or which relate only to assets that in the aggregate are not Material;
(e) Liens securing Debt existing on property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary as of the date of this Agreement that are described in Schedule 10.4;
(f) Liens (i) existing on property at the time of its acquisition by the Company or a Subsidiary and not created in contemplation thereof, whether or not the Debt secured by such Lien is assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary; or (ii) on property (including (Capital Leases) created contemporaneously with its acquisition or within 180 days of the acquisition or completion of construction or improvements thereof to secure or provide
 
for all or a portion of the acquisition price or cost of construction or improvements of such property after the date of Closing; or (iii) existing on property of a Person at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with, or becomes a Subsidiary of, or substantially all of its assets are acquired by, the Company or a Subsidiary and not created in contemplation thereof; provided that such Liens do not extend to additional property of the Company or any Subsidiary (other than property that is an improvement to or is acquired for specific use in connection with the subject property) and that the aggregate principal amount of Debt secured by each such Lien does not exceed the lesser of cost of acquisition or construction or the fair market value (determined in good faith by one or more officers of the Company to whom authority to enter into the transaction has been delegated by the board of directors of the Company) of the property subject thereto;
(g) Liens resulting from extensions, renewals or replacements of Liens permitted by paragraphs (e) and (f), provided that (i) there is no increase in the principal amount or decrease in maturity of the Debt secured thereby at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, (ii) any new Lien attaches only to the same property theretofore subject to such earlier Lien and (iii) immediately after such extension, renewal or replacement no Default or Event of Default would exist;
(h) Liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary owed to the Company or to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary;
(i) Liens arising in connection with a Contract Purchase Facility or a Permitted Receivables Securitization Transaction on the assets transferred in connection therewith, including proceeds and cash;
(j) Liens securing Debt not otherwise permitted by paragraphs (a) through (i) above, provided that Priority Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Total Assets (as of the end of the Company's then most recently completed fiscal quarter) at any time.
10.5. Subsidiary Debt.
The Company will not at any time permit any Subsidiary (other than an Obligor), directly or indirectly, to create, incur, assume, guarantee, have outstanding, or otherwise become or remain directly or indirectly liable for, any Debt other than:
(a) Debt outstanding on the date hereof that is described on Schedule 10.5, and any replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension of any such Debt that (i) does not exceed the aggregate principal amount (plus accrued interest and any applicable premium and associated fees and expenses) of the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended, (ii) does not have a Weighted Average Life to Maturity at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension that is less than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended and (iii) does not rank at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension senior to the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended;
(b) Debt owed to the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary;
 
(c) Debt of any Subsidiary Guarantor;
(d) Debt of a Subsidiary outstanding at the time of its acquisition by the Company, provided that (i) such Debt was not incurred in contemplation of becoming a Subsidiary, and (ii) at the time of such acquisition and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default exists or would exist, and any replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension of any such Debt that (i) does not exceed the aggregate principal amount (plus accrued interest and any applicable premium and associated fees and expenses) of the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended, (ii) does not have a Weighted Average Life to Maturity at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension that is less than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended and (iii) does not rank at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension senior to the Debt being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended;
(e) Debt not otherwise permitted by the preceding clauses (a) through (d), provided that immediately before and after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds thereof,
(i) no Default or Event of Default exists, and
(ii) Priority Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Total Assets (as of the end of the Company's then most recently completed fiscal quarter) at any time.
10.6. Mergers, Consolidations, etc.
(a) The Company will not consolidate with or merge with any other Person or convey, transfer, sell or lease all or substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to any Person unless:
(i) the successor formed by such consolidation or the survivor of such merger or the Person that acquires by conveyance, transfer, sale or lease all or substantially all of the assets of the Company as an entirety, as the case may be, is a solvent corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof (including the District of Columbia), and, if the Company is not such corporation, such corporation (A) shall have executed and delivered to each holder of any Notes its assumption of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant and condition of this Agreement and the Notes and (B) shall have caused to be delivered to each holder of any Notes an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel or other independent counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and comply with the terms hereof; and
(ii) immediately before and after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
 
No such conveyance, transfer, sale or lease of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company shall have the effect of releasing the Company or any successor corporation that shall theretofore have become such in the manner prescribed in this Section 10.6 from its liability under this Agreement or the Notes.
(b) The Company will not permit any Subsidiary that is an Obligor to consolidate with or merge with any other Subsidiary that is not an Obligor (a "Non-Obligor Subsidiary") if such Non-Obligor Subsidiary is the successor or survivor, or convey, transfer, sell or lease all or substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to any Non-Obligor Subsidiary, unless:
(i) such Non-Obligor Subsidiary (A) is a solvent corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state thereof (including the District of Columbia), (B) shall have executed and delivered to each holder of any Notes its assumption of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant and condition of this Agreement and the Notes and (C) shall have caused to be delivered to each holder of any Notes an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel or other independent counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and comply with the terms hereof; and
(ii) immediately before and after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
10.7. Sale of Assets.
Except as permitted by Section 10.6, the Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, make any Asset Disposition unless:
(a) in the good faith opinion of the Company, the Asset Disposition is in exchange for consideration having a fair market value at least equal to that of the property exchanged and is in the best interest of the Company or such Subsidiary;
(b) immediately after giving effect to the Asset Disposition, no Default or Event of Default would exist; and
(c) immediately after giving effect to the Asset Disposition, the Disposition Value of all property that was the subject of any Asset Disposition occurring in the then current fiscal year of the Company would not exceed 15% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the then most recently completed fiscal year of the Company; and
If the Net Proceeds Amount for any Transfer is applied to a Debt Prepayment Application or a Property Reinvestment Application within 90 days before or 365 days after such Transfer, then such Transfer, only for the purpose of determining compliance with paragraph (c) of this Section 10.7 as of any date, shall be deemed not to be an Asset Disposition.
 
10.8. Transactions with Affiliates.
The Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to enter into directly or indirectly any Material transaction or Material group of related transactions (including without limitation the purchase, lease, sale or exchange of properties of any kind or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate (other than the Company or another Subsidiary), except in the ordinary course of the Company's or such Subsidiary's business and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than would be obtainable in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
11. EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
An "Event of Default" shall exist if any of the following conditions or events shall occur and be continuing:
(a) the Obligors default in the payment of any principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise; or
(b) the Obligors default in the payment of any interest on any Note for more than five Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(c) the Obligors default in the performance of or compliance with any term contained in Section 7.1(d) or in Sections 10.1 through 10.8; or
(d) the Obligors default in the performance of or compliance with any term contained herein (other than those referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section 11) and such default is not remedied within 30 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer obtaining actual knowledge of such default or (ii) the Company receiving written notice of such default from any holder of a Note; or
(e) any representation or warranty made in writing by or on behalf of the Obligors or by any officer of any Obligor in this Agreement or in any writing furnished in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby proves to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on the date as of which made; or
(f) (i) any Obligor or any other Subsidiary is in default (as principal or as guarantor or other surety) in the payment of any principal of or premium or make-whole amount or libor-breakage amount or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least the greater of $50,000,000 or 2% of Consolidated Total Assets beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto, or (ii) any Obligor or any other Subsidiary is in default in the performance of or compliance with any term of any evidence of any Debt that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least the greater of $50,000,000 or 2% of Consolidated Total Assets or of any mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating thereto or any other condition exists, and as a consequence of such default or condition such Debt has become, or has been declared (or one or more Persons are entitled to declare such Debt to be), due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment, or (iii) as a
 
consequence of the occurrence or continuation of any event or condition (other than the passage of time or the right of the holder of Debt to convert such Debt into equity interests), (A) any Obligor or any other Subsidiary has become obligated to purchase or repay Debt before its regular maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least the greater of $50,000,000 or 2% of Consolidated Total Assets or (B) one or more Persons have the right to require any Obligor or any other Subsidiary so to purchase or repay such Debt; or
(g) any Obligor or any other Subsidiary (i) is generally not paying, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, (ii) files, or consents by answer or otherwise to the filing against it of, a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar law of any jurisdiction, (iii) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (iv) consents to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, (v) is adjudicated as insolvent or to be liquidated, or (vi) takes corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing; or
(h) a court or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction enters an order appointing, without consent by any Obligor or any other Subsidiary, a custodian, receiver, trustee or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, or constituting an order for relief or approving a petition for relief or reorganization or any other petition in bankruptcy or for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or ordering the dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary, or any such petition shall be filed against any Obligor or any other Subsidiary and such petition shall not be dismissed within 60 days; or
(i) a final judgment or judgments for the payment of money aggregating more than the greater of $50,000,000 or 2% of Consolidated Total Assets are rendered against one or more of the Obligors and any other Subsidiaries, which judgments are not, within 60 days after entry thereof, bonded, discharged or stayed pending appeal, or are not discharged within 60 days after the expiration of such stay; or
(j) if (i) any Plan shall fail to satisfy the minimum funding standards of ERISA or the Code for any plan year or part thereof or a waiver of such standards or extension of any amortization period is sought or granted under section 412 of the Code, (ii) a notice of intent to terminate any Plan shall have been or is reasonably expected to be filed with the PBGC or the PBGC shall have instituted proceedings under ERISA section 4042 to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan or the PBGC shall have notified the Company or any ERISA Affiliate that a Plan may become a subject of any such proceedings, (iii) the aggregate "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (within the meaning of section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA) under all Plans determined in accordance with Title IV of ERISA, shall be greater than the greater of $50,000,000 or 2% of Consolidated Total Assets, (iv) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate shall have incurred or is reasonably expected to incur any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the
 
penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans, (v) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan, or (vi) the Company or any Subsidiary establishes or amends any employee welfare benefit plan that provides post-employment welfare benefits in a manner that would increase the liability of the Company or any Subsidiary thereunder; and any such event or events described in clauses (i) through (vi) above, either individually or together with any other such event or events, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; or
(k) any Subsidiary Guarantor defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term contained in the Subsidiary Guaranty or the Subsidiary Guaranty ceases to be in full force and effect as a result of acts taken by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, except as provided in Section 22, or is declared to be null and void in whole or in material part by a court or other governmental or regulatory authority having jurisdiction or the validity or enforceability thereof shall be contested by any of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or any of them renounces any of the same or denies that it has any or further liability thereunder.
As used in Section 11(j), the terms "employee benefit plan" and "employee welfare benefit plan" shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
12. REMEDIES ON DEFAULT, ETC.
12.1. Acceleration.
(a) If an Event of Default with respect to any Obligor described in paragraph (g) or (h) of Section 11 (other than an Event of Default described in clause (i) of paragraph (g) or described in clause (vi) of paragraph (g) by virtue of the fact that such clause encompasses clause (i) of paragraph (g)) has occurred, all the Notes then outstanding shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
(b) If any other Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, holders of at least 51% in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may at any time at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Obligors, declare all the Notes then outstanding to be immediately due and payable.
(c) If any Event of Default described in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 11 has occurred and is continuing, any holder or holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected by such Event of Default may at any time, at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Company, declare all the Notes held by it or them to be immediately due and payable.
Upon any Notes becoming due and payable under this Section 12.1, whether automatically or by declaration, such Notes will forthwith mature and the entire unpaid principal amount of such Notes, plus (w) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and (x) any applicable Make-Whole Amount determined in respect of such principal amount (to the full extent permitted by applicable law), shall all be immediately due and payable, in each and every case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice, all of which are hereby waived. The Obligors acknowledge, and the parties hereto agree, that each holder of a Note has the right to
 
maintain its investment in the Notes free from repayment by the Obligors (except as herein specifically provided for) and that the provision for payment of a Make-Whole Amount by the Obligors in the event that the Notes are prepaid or are accelerated as a result of an Event of Default, is intended to provide compensation for the deprivation of such right under such circumstances.
12.2. Other Remedies.
If any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and irrespective of whether any Notes have become or have been declared immediately due and payable under Section 12.1, the holder of any Note at the time outstanding may proceed to protect and enforce the rights of such holder by an action at law, suit in equity or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the specific performance of any agreement contained herein or in any Note, or for an injunction against a violation of any of the terms hereof or thereof, or in aid of the exercise of any power granted hereby or thereby or by law or otherwise.
12.3. Rescission.
At any time after any Notes have been declared due and payable pursuant to clause (b) or (c) of Section 12.1, the holders of at least 51% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Obligors, may rescind and annul any such declaration and its consequences if (a) the Obligors have paid all overdue interest on the Notes, all principal of and any Make-Whole Amount on any Notes that are due and payable and are unpaid other than by reason of such declaration, and all interest on such overdue principal and any Make-Whole Amount and (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any overdue interest in respect of the Notes, at the Default Rate, (b) all Events of Default and Defaults, other than non-payment of amounts that have become due solely by reason of such declaration, have been cured or have been waived pursuant to Section 17, and (c) no judgment or decree has been entered for the payment of any monies due pursuant hereto or to the Notes. No rescission and annulment under this Section 12.3 will extend to or affect any subsequent Event of Default or Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
12.4. No Waivers or Election of Remedies, Expenses, etc.
No course of dealing and no delay on the part of any holder of any Note in exercising any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof or otherwise prejudice such holder's rights, powers or remedies. No right, power or remedy conferred by this Agreement or by any Note or the Subsidiary Guaranty upon any holder thereof shall be exclusive of any other right, power or remedy referred to herein or therein or now or hereafter available at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise. Without limiting the obligations of the Obligors under Section 15, the Obligors will pay to the holder of each Note on demand such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all costs and expenses of such holder incurred in any enforcement or collection under this Section 12, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, expenses and disbursements.
 
13. REGISTRATION; EXCHANGE; SUBSTITUTION OF NOTES.
13.1. Registration of Notes.
The Company shall keep at its principal executive office a register for the registration and registration of transfers of Notes. The name and address of each holder of one or more Notes, each transfer thereof and the name and address of each transferee of one or more Notes shall be registered in such register. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed and treated as the owner and holder thereof for all purposes hereof, and the Company shall not be affected by any notice or knowledge to the contrary. The Company shall give to any holder of a Note that is an Institutional Investor, promptly upon request therefor, a complete and correct copy of the names and addresses of all registered holders of Notes.
13.2. Transfer and Exchange of Notes.
Upon surrender of any Note at the principal executive office of the Company for registration of transfer or exchange (and in the case of a surrender for registration of transfer, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed by the registered holder of such Note or his attorney duly authorized in writing and accompanied by the address for notices of each transferee of such Note or part thereof), the Obligors shall execute and deliver within five Business Days, at the Obligors' expense (except as provided below), one or more new Notes (as requested by the holder thereof) of the same series in exchange therefor, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new Note shall be payable to such Person as such holder may request and shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit 1(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) as appropriate. Each such new Note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or governmental charge imposed in respect of any such transfer of Notes. Notes shall not be transferred in denominations of less than $100,000, provided that if necessary to enable the registration of transfer by a holder of its entire holding of Notes, one Note may be in a denomination of less than $100,000. Any transferee, by its acceptance of a Note registered in its name (or the name of its nominee), shall be deemed to have made the representation set forth in Section 6.2.
13.3. Replacement of Notes.
Upon receipt by the Company of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the ownership of and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any Note (which evidence shall be, in the case of an Institutional Investor, notice from such Institutional Investor of such ownership and such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation), and
(a) in the case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it (provided that if the holder of such Note is, or is a nominee for, an original Purchaser or another Institutional Investor holder of a Note with a minimum net worth of at least $50,000,000, such Person's own unsecured agreement of indemnity shall be deemed to be satisfactory), or
 
(b) in the case of mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation thereof,
the Obligors at their own expense shall execute and deliver within five Business Days, in lieu thereof, a new Note of the same series, dated and bearing interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
14. PAYMENTS ON NOTES.
14.1. Place of Payment.
Subject to Section 14.2, payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest becoming due and payable on the Notes shall be made in Chicago, Illinois at the principal office of JPMorgan Chase, NA in such jurisdiction. The Obligors may at any time, by notice to each holder of a Note, change the place of payment of the Notes so long as such place of payment shall be either the principal office of the Company in such jurisdiction or the principal office of a bank or trust company in such jurisdiction.
14.2. Home Office Payment.
So long as you or your nominee shall be the holder of any Note, and notwithstanding anything contained in Section 14.1 or in such Note to the contrary, the Obligors will pay all sums becoming due on such Note for principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest by the method and at the address specified for such purpose below your name in Schedule A, or by such other method or at such other address as you shall have from time to time specified to the Company in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of such Note or the making of any notation thereon, except that upon written request of the Company made concurrently with or reasonably promptly after payment or prepayment in full of any Note, you shall surrender such Note for cancellation, reasonably promptly after any such request, to the Company at its principal executive office or at the place of payment most recently designated by the Company pursuant to Section 14.1. Prior to any sale or other disposition of any Note held by you or your nominee you will, at your election, either endorse thereon the amount of principal paid thereon and the last date to which interest has been paid thereon or surrender such Note to the Company in exchange for a new Note or Notes pursuant to Section 13.2. The Obligors will afford the benefits of this Section 14.2 to any Institutional Investor that is the direct or indirect transferee of any Note purchased by you under this Agreement and that has made the same agreement relating to such Note as you have made in this Section 14.2.
15. EXPENSES, ETC.
15.1. Transaction Expenses.
Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Obligors will pay all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees of a special counsel and, if reasonably required, local or other counsel) incurred by you and each Other
 
Purchaser or holder of a Note in connection with such transactions and in connection with any amendments, waivers or consents under or in respect of this Agreement or the Notes (whether or not such amendment, waiver or consent becomes effective), including: (a) the costs and expenses incurred in enforcing or defending (or determining whether or how to enforce or defend) any rights under this Agreement or the Notes, or in responding to any subpoena or other legal process or informal investigative demand issued in connection with this Agreement or the Notes, or by reason of being a holder of any Note, (b) the costs and expenses, including financial advisors' fees, incurred in connection with the insolvency or bankruptcy of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or in connection with any work-out or restructuring of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Notes, and (c) the costs and expenses not in excess of $3,000 incurred in connection with the initial filing of this Agreement and all related documents and financial information, and all subsequent annual and interim filings of documents and financial information related to this Agreement, with the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any successor organization succeeding to the authority thereof. The Obligors will pay, and will save you and each other holder of a Note harmless from, all claims in respect of any fees, costs or expenses if any, of brokers and finders (other than those retained by you).
15.2. Survival.
The obligations of the Obligors under this Section 15 will survive the payment or transfer of any Note, the enforcement, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, and the termination of this Agreement.
16. SURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
All representations and warranties contained herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Notes, the purchase or transfer by you of any Note or portion thereof or interest therein and the payment of any Note, and may be relied upon by any subsequent holder of a Note, regardless of any investigation made at any time by or on behalf of you or any other holder of a Note. All statements contained in any certificate or other instrument delivered by or on behalf of any Obligor pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed representations and warranties of such Obligor under this Agreement. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement and the Notes embody the entire agreement and understanding between you and the Obligors and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.
17. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER.
17.1. Requirements.
This Agreement, the Notes and the Subsidiary Guaranty may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof or of the Notes may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), with (and only with) the written consent of the Obligors and the Required Holders, except that (a) no amendment or waiver of any of the provisions of Section 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 21 hereof, or any defined term (as it is used therein), will be effective as to you unless
 
consented to by you in writing, and (b) no such amendment or waiver may, without the written consent of the holder of each Note at the time outstanding affected thereby, (i) subject to the provisions of Section 12 relating to acceleration or rescission, change the amount or time of any prepayment or payment of principal of, or reduce the rate or change the time of payment or method of computation of interest or of the Make-Whole Amount on, the Notes, (ii) change the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes the holders of which are required to consent to any such amendment or waiver, or (iii) amend any of Sections 8, 11(a), 11(b), 12, 17 or 20.
17.2. Solicitation of Holders of Notes.
(a) . The Company will provide each holder of the Notes (irrespective of the amount of Notes then owned by it) with sufficient information, sufficiently far in advance of the date a decision is required, to enable such holder to make an informed and considered decision with respect to any proposed amendment, waiver or consent in respect of any of the provisions hereof or of the Notes. The Company will deliver executed or true and correct copies of each amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to the provisions of this Section 17 to each holder of outstanding Notes promptly following the date on which it is executed and delivered by, or receives the consent or approval of, the requisite holders of Notes.
Solicitation
(b) . The Obligors will not directly or indirectly pay or cause to be paid any remuneration, whether by way of supplemental or additional interest, fee or otherwise, or grant any security or provide other credit support, to any holder of Notes as consideration for or as an inducement to the entering into by any holder of Notes or any waiver or amendment of any of the terms and provisions hereof unless such remuneration is concurrently paid, or security is concurrently granted, or other credit support is concurrently provided, on the same terms, ratably to each holder of Notes then outstanding even if such holder did not consent to such waiver or amendment.
Payment
17.3. Binding Effect, etc.
Any amendment or waiver consented to as provided in this Section 17 applies equally to all holders of Notes and is binding upon them and upon each future holder of any Note and upon the Obligors without regard to whether such Note has been marked to indicate such amendment or waiver. No such amendment or waiver will extend to or affect any obligation, covenant, agreement, Default or Event of Default not expressly amended or waived or impair any right consequent thereon. No course of dealing between the Obligors and the holder of any Note nor any delay in exercising any rights hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights of any holder of such Note. As used herein, the term "this Agreement" or "the Agreement" and references thereto shall mean this Agreement as it may from time to time be amended or supplemented.
17.4. Notes held by Obligors, etc.
Solely for the purpose of determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding approved or consented to any amendment, waiver or consent to be given under this Agreement or the Notes, or have
 
directed the taking of any action provided herein or in the Notes to be taken upon the direction of the holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding, Notes directly or indirectly owned by any Obligor or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed not to be outstanding.
18. NOTICES.
All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by facsimile if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), or (b) by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested (postage prepaid), or (c) by a recognized overnight delivery service (with charges prepaid). Any such notice must be sent:
(i) if to you or your nominee, to you or it at the address specified for such communications in Schedule A, or at such other address as you or it shall have specified to the Company in writing,
(ii) if to any other holder of any Note, to such holder at such address as such other holder shall have specified to the Company in writing, or
(iii) if to the Company or to the Obligors, to the Company at its address set forth at the beginning hereof to the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, or at such other address as the Company shall have specified to the holder of each Note in writing.
Notices under this Section 18 will be deemed given only when actually received.
19. REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.
This Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (b) documents received by you at the Closing (except the Notes themselves), and (c) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter furnished to you, may be reproduced by you by any photographic, photostatic, microfilm, microcard, miniature photographic or other similar process and you may destroy any original document so reproduced. The Obligors agree and stipulate that, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by you in the regular course of business) and any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence. This Section 19 shall not prohibit the Obligors or any other holder of Notes from contesting any such reproduction to the same extent that it could contest the original, or from introducing evidence to demonstrate the inaccuracy of any such reproduction.
20. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
For the purposes of this Section 20, "Confidential Information" means information delivered to you by or on behalf of any Obligor or any other Subsidiary in
 
connection with the transactions contemplated by or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement that is proprietary in nature and that was clearly marked or labeled or otherwise adequately identified when received by you as being confidential information of such Obligor or such Subsidiary, provided that such term does not include information that (a) was publicly known or otherwise known to you prior to the time of such disclosure, (b) subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or omission by you or any person acting on your behalf, (c) otherwise becomes known to you other than through disclosure by any Obligor or any other Subsidiary or (d) constitutes financial statements delivered to you under Section 7.1 that are otherwise publicly available. You will maintain the confidentiality of such Confidential Information in accordance with procedures adopted by you in good faith to protect confidential information of third parties delivered to you, provided that you may deliver or disclose Confidential Information to (i) your directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents, attorneys and affiliates (to the extent such disclosure reasonably relates to the administration of the investment represented by your Notes), (ii) your financial advisors and other professional advisors who agree to hold confidential the Confidential Information substantially in accordance with the terms of this Section 20, (iii) any other holder of any Note, (iv) any Institutional Investor to which you sell or offer to sell such Note or any part thereof or any participation therein (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (v) any Person from which you offer to purchase any security of any Obligor (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this Section 20), (vi) any federal or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over you, (vii) the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization, or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about your investment portfolio or (viii) any other Person to which such delivery or disclosure may be necessary or appropriate (w) to effect compliance with any law, rule, regulation or order applicable to you, (x) in response to any subpoena or other legal process, (y) in connection with any litigation to which you are a party or (z) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, to the extent you may reasonably determine such delivery and disclosure to be necessary or appropriate in the enforcement or for the protection of the rights and remedies under your Notes and this Agreement. Each holder of a Note, by its acceptance of a Note, will be deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to be entitled to the benefits of this Section 20 as though it were a party to this Agreement. On reasonable request by the Obligors in connection with the delivery to any holder of a Note of information required to be delivered to such holder under this Agreement or requested by such holder (other than a holder that is a party to this Agreement or its nominee), such holder will enter into an agreement with the Obligors embodying the provisions of this Section 20.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein or in any other written or oral understanding or agreement to which the parties hereto are parties or by which they are bound, the parties acknowledge and agree that (i) any obligations of confidentiality contained herein and therein do not apply and have not applied from the commencement of discussions between the parties to the tax treatment and tax structure of the Notes (and any related transactions or arrangements), and (ii) each party (and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Notes and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to such party relating to such tax treatment and tax structure, all within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 1.6011-4.
 
21. SUBSTITUTION OF PURCHASER.
You shall have the right to substitute any one of your Affiliates as the purchaser of the Notes that you have agreed to purchase hereunder, by written notice to the Obligors, which notice shall be signed by both you and such Affiliate, shall contain such Affiliate's agreement to be bound by this Agreement and shall contain a confirmation by such Affiliate of the accuracy with respect to it of the representations set forth in Section 6. Upon receipt of such notice, wherever the word "you" is used in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), such word shall be deemed to refer to such Affiliate in lieu of you. In the event that such Affiliate is so substituted as a purchaser hereunder and such Affiliate thereafter transfers to you all of the Notes then held by such Affiliate, upon receipt by the Company of notice of such transfer, wherever the word "you" is used in this Agreement (other than in this Section 21), such word shall no longer be deemed to refer to such Affiliate, but shall refer to you, and you shall have all the rights of an original holder of the Notes under this Agreement.
22. RELEASE OF OBLIGOR OR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTOR.
(a) . Each holder of a Note fully releases and discharges, immediately and without any further act, any Obligor, other than the Company, from its obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, or any Subsidiary Guarantor from the Subsidiary Guaranty, if such Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of an Asset Disposition permitted by Section 10.7, provided that, at the time of such release and discharge, the Company delivers to each holder of Notes a certificate of a Responsible Officer certifying that such Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor is being so released pursuant to this Section 22(a) and setting forth the facts and calculations necessary to establish compliance with Section 10.7.
Release Due to Asset Disposition
(b) . Each holder of a Note fully releases and discharges, immediately and without any further act, any Obligor, other than the Company, from its obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, or any Subsidiary Guarantor from the Subsidiary Guaranty at such time as the banks party to all Loan Agreements to which such Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor is a party release and discharge such Subsidiary Guarantor from any Guaranties thereunder or as a borrower thereunder; provided that,
Release Due to Release Under Loan Agreements
(i) no Default or Event of Default exists or will exist immediately following such release and discharge of such Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor;
(ii) if any fee or other consideration is paid or given to any holder of Debt under any Loan Agreement in connection with such release and discharge of an Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor, other than the repayment of all or a portion of such Debt under any applicable Loan Agreement, each holder of a Note receives equivalent consideration on a pro rata basis; and
(iii) at the time of such release and discharge, the Company delivers to each holder of Notes a certificate of a Responsible Officer certifying (x) that such Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor has been or is being released and discharged as guarantor or borrower under and in respect of all applicable Loan Agreements and (y) as to the matters set forth in clauses (i) and (ii).
 
23. MISCELLANEOUS.
23.1. Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and other agreements contained in this Agreement by or on behalf of any of the parties hereto bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any subsequent holder of a Note) whether so expressed or not.
23.2. Payments Due on Non-Business Days.
Anything in this Agreement or the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding (but without limiting the requirement in Section 8.3 that the notice of any optional prepayment specify a Business Day as the date fixed for such prepayment), any payment of principal of or Make-Whole Amount or interest on any Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day; provided that if the maturity date of any Note is a date other than a Business Day, the payment otherwise due on such maturity date shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
23.3. Accounting Terms.
All accounting terms used herein that are not expressly defined in this Agreement have the meanings respectively given to them in accordance with GAAP. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, (i) all computations made pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles and (ii) all financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP.
23.4. Severability.
Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
23.5. Construction.
Each covenant contained herein shall be construed (absent express provision to the contrary) as being independent of each other covenant contained herein, so that compliance with any one covenant shall not (absent such an express contrary provision) be deemed to excuse compliance with any other covenant. Where any provision herein refers to action to be taken by any Person, or which such Person is prohibited from taking, such provision shall be applicable whether such action is taken directly or indirectly by such Person.
 
23.6. Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.
23.7. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction.
This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the law of the State of Illinois excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
Each Obligor irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Illinois and of the courts of the United States of America having jurisdiction in the State of Illinois for the purpose of any legal action or proceeding in any such court with respect to, or arising out of, this Agreement or the Notes. Each Obligor consents to process being served in any suit, action or proceeding by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address of such Obligor specified in or designated pursuant to this Agreement. Each Obligor agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to such Obligor.
 
If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please sign the form of agreement on the accompanying counterpart of this Agreement and return it to the Company, whereupon the foregoing shall become a binding agreement between you and the Obligors.
 
 
The foregoing is agreed
to as of the date thereof.
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, its Investment Manager
METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT
by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, its Investment Manager
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B
As used herein, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below or set forth in the Section hereof following such term:
"" means, at any time, and with respect to any Person, (a) any other Person that at such time directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such first Person, and (b) any Person beneficially owning or holding, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests of the Company or any Subsidiary or any corporation of which the Company and its Subsidiaries beneficially own or hold, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests. As used in this definition, "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to an "Affiliate" is a reference to an Affiliate of the Company. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, a Person that (i) would be an Affiliate of the Company solely by virtue of its ownership of voting or equity interests of the Company and (ii) is eligible pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b) under the Exchange Act to file a statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Schedule 13G, shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate.
Affiliate
Control
means GAAP, provided that with respect to the calculations for purposes of determining compliance with the covenants set forth in Sections 10.1 through 10.5 and Section 10.7, such term means generally accepted accounting principles in effect as of the date of the Closing applied on a basis consistent with that used in the preparation of the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Company listed in Schedule 5.5.
"Agreement Accounting Principles"
"" means Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001 Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism (66 Fed. Reg. 49079 (2001)).
Anti-Terrorism Order
"" means any Transfer except:
Asset Disposition
(a) any
(i) Transfer from a Subsidiary to the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary;
(ii) Transfer from the Company to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary; and
(iii) Transfer from the Company to a Subsidiary (other than a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) or from a Subsidiary to another Subsidiary (other than a Wholly Owned Subsidiary), which in either case is for fair market value,
so long as immediately before and immediately after the consummation of any such Transfer and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default exists;
 
(b) any Transfer made in the ordinary course of business; or
(c) any Transfer by the Company or a Subsidiary pursuant to a Contract Purchase Facility or as part of a Permitted Receivables Securitization Transaction.
"" means (a) for the purposes of Section 8.7 only, any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks in New York City are required or authorized to be closed, and (b) for the purposes of any other provision of this Agreement, any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks in Chicago, Illinois, St. Paul, Minnesota or New York City are required or authorized to be closed.
Business Day
"" means, at any time, a lease with respect to which the lessee is required concurrently to recognize the acquisition of an asset and the incurrence of a liability in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capital Lease
"" means (a) in the case of a corporation, capital stock, (b) in the case of a partnership, partnership interests (whether general or limited) (c) in the case of a limited liability company, membership interests and (d) any other interest or participation in a Person that confers on the holder the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, such Person.
Capital Stock
means an event or series of events by which any person or "group" (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (such person or persons hereinafter referred to as an "Acquiring Person") becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change of Control" shall not be deemed to have occurred if the Company (or the Acquiring Person if either (x) the Company is no longer in existence or (y) the Acquiring Person has acquired all or substantially all of the assets thereof) shall have an Investment Grade Rating immediately following such Acquiring Person becoming the "beneficial owner" or consummating such acquisition.
"Change of Control"
"" is defined in Section 3.
Closing
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.
Code
"" means Patterson Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
Company
"" is defined in Section 20.
Confidential Information
means, for any period and for any Person, the sum of Consolidated EBIT for such period, plus consolidated depreciation and amortization for such period. If, during the period for which Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA of the Company is being calculated, the Company or any Subsidiary has (i) acquired sufficient Capital Stock of a Person to cause such Person to become a Subsidiary; (ii) acquired all or substantially all of the assets or operations, division or line of business of a person; or (iii) disposed of one or more
"Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA"
 
Subsidiaries (or disposed of all or substantially all of the assets or operations, division or line of business of a Subsidiary or other person), Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if all of such acquisitions and dispositions had occurred on the first day of such period.
means, for any period and for any Person, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person, provided that, if, during the period for which Consolidated Net Income of the Company is being calculated, the Company or any Subsidiary has (i) acquired sufficient Capital Stock of a Person to cause such Person to become a Subsidiary; (ii) acquired all or substantially all of the assets or operations, division or line of business of a Person; or (iii) disposed of one or more Subsidiaries (or disposed of all or substantially all of the assets or operations, division or line of business of a Subsidiary or other person), Consolidated Net Income shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if all of such acquisitions and dispositions had occurred on the first day of such period.
"Consolidated Adjusted Net Income"
"" means, as of any date, the outstanding Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries on such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Debt
means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income plus, to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, and (ii) expense for federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes paid or accrued, all calculated for such Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
"Consolidated EBIT"
"" means, for any period, the consolidated interest expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period (including capitalized interest and the interest component of Capital Leases), determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, for any period and for any Person, the net income (or loss) of such Person and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, excluding any non-cash charges, non-cash employee stock option expense and any gains that are unusual, non-recurring or extraordinary.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as of any date, the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Total Assets
"" means (a) the Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of May 10, 2002, among the originators named therein and PDC Funding Company, LLC, as buyer and the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of October 7, 2004, among PDC Funding Company, LLC, the Company, the Conduits party thereto, the financial institutions party thereto and Bank One, as agent, as such agreements may be amended, restated, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, (b) the Contract Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 27, 2007, among the Company, PDC Funding Company II, LLC, U.S. Bank National Association, individually and as agent, and certain buyers identified therein,
Contract Purchase Facility
 
and the Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of April 27, 2007, among the originators named therein and PDC Funding Company II, LLC, as such Contract Purchase Agreement and Receivables Sale Agreement may be amended, restated, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, (c) any comparable additional or replacement facility made available to the Company or any Subsidiary, provided that any of such facilities: (i) provides for the sale by the Company or such Subsidiary of rights to payment arising under Customer Installment Contracts; (ii) provides for a purchase price in an amount that represents the reasonably equivalent value of the assets subject thereto (determined as of the date of such sale); (iii) evidences the intent of the parties that for accounting and all other purposes, such sale is to be treated as a sale by the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and a purchase by such institution(s) or special purpose entity (and not as a lending transaction); (iv) provides for the delivery of opinions of outside counsel to the effect that, under, applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws (subject to assumptions and qualifications customary for opinions of such type), such transaction will be treated as a true sale and not as a lending transaction and that the assets of any purchasing special purpose entity will not be consolidated with the assets of the selling entity, the Company or any Affiliate of the Company; (v) provides for the parties to such transaction to, and such parties do, treat such transaction as a sale for all other accounting purposes; and (vi) provides that such sale is without recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary, except to the extent of normal and customary conditions and rights of limited recourse that are consistent with the opinions referred to in clause (iv) and with the treatment of such sale as a true sale for accounting purposes.
means the execution by the Company of a definitive written agreement that, when fully performed by the parties thereto, would result in a Change of Control.
"Control Event"
"" means the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of November 25, 2007 among the Company and the other Obligors, the other Subsidiary borrowers and lenders from time to time party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, as such agreement may be amended, restated, supplemented, refinanced, increased or reduced from time to time, and any successor credit agreement or similar facility.
Credit Agreement
"" means a contract between the Company or any Subsidiary and a customer providing for the installment sale, licensing or secured financing of equipment, furnishings or computer software.
Customer Installment Contract
"" with respect to any Person means, at any time, without duplication,
Debt
(a) its liabilities for borrowed money and its redemption obligations in respect of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock;
(b) its liabilities for the deferred purchase price of property acquired by such Person (excluding accounts payable and other accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business but including all liabilities created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to any such property);
 
(c) all liabilities appearing on its balance sheet in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles in respect of Capital Leases;
(d) all liabilities for borrowed money secured by any Lien with respect to any property owned by such Person (whether or not it has assumed or otherwise become liable for such liabilities);
(e) all of its liabilities in respect of letters of credit or instruments serving a similar function issued or accepted for its account by banks and other financial institutions (whether or not representing obligations for borrowed money);
(f) Swaps of such Person;
(g) any recourse liability of such Person under or in connection with a Contract Purchase Facility or Permitted Receivables Securitization Transaction; and
(h) any Guaranty of such Person with respect to liabilities of a type described in any of clauses (a) through (g) hereof.
means the ratio of Consolidated Debt (as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company) to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (for the Company's most recently completed four fiscal quarters).
"Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio"
"" means, with respect to any Transfer of property, the application by the Company or a Subsidiary of cash in an amount equal to the Net Proceeds Amount with respect to such Transfer to pay Senior Debt other than Senior Debt owing to the Company, any Subsidiary or any of their respective Affiliates; provided that in the course of making such application the Company shall offer to prepay each outstanding Note at par, in accordance with Section 8.2(b), in a principal amount that equals the Ratable Portion of the holder of such Note in respect of such Transfer. If any holder of a Note fails to accept such offer of prepayment, then, for purposes of the preceding sentence only, the Company nevertheless will be deemed to have paid Senior Debt in an amount equal to the Ratable Portion of the holder of such Note in respect of such Transfer.
Debt Prepayment Application
"" is defined in Section 8.2(b)(i).
Debt Prepayment Transfer
"" means an event or condition the occurrence or existence of which would, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means that rate of interest that is the greater of (i) 2% per annum above the rate of interest stated in clause (a) of the first paragraph of the Notes or (ii) 2% over the rate of interest publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase, N.A. in Chicago, Illinois as its "base" or "prime" rate.
Default Rate
is defined in the preamble.
"Dental Holdings"
"" means, at any time, with respect to any property:
Disposition Value
 
(a) in the case of property that does not constitute Subsidiary Stock, the book value thereof, valued at the time of such disposition in good faith by the Company; and
(b) in the case of property that constitutes Subsidiary Stock, an amount equal to that percentage of book value of the assets of the Subsidiary that issued such stock as is equal to the percentage that the book value of such Subsidiary Stock represents of the book value of all of the outstanding capital stock of such Subsidiary (assuming, in making such calculations, that all securities convertible into such capital stock are so converted and giving full effect to all transactions that would occur or be required in connection with such conversion) determined at the time of the disposition thereof, in good faith by the Obligors.
means any Subsidiary of a Person that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
"Domestic Subsidiary"
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including but not limited to those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is treated as a single employer together with the Company under section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" is defined in Section 11.
Event of Default
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
means any Subsidiary of a Person that is not organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof (including the District of Columbia) and any Subsidiary of such Person regardless of where it is organized.
"Foreign Subsidiary"
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means
Governmental Authority
(a) the government of
(i) the United States of America or any State or other political subdivision thereof, or
 
(ii) any jurisdiction in which the Company or any Subsidiary conducts all or any part of its business, or which asserts jurisdiction over any properties of the Company or any Subsidiary, or
(b) any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of, or pertaining to, any such government.
"" means, with respect to any Person, any obligation (except the endorsement in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) of such Person guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any indebtedness, dividend or other obligation of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including (without limitation) obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such Person:
Guaranty
(a) to purchase such indebtedness or obligation or any property constituting security therefor;
(b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of such indebtedness or obligation, or (ii) to maintain any working capital or other balance sheet condition or any income statement condition of any other Person or otherwise to advance or make available funds for the purchase or payment of such indebtedness or obligation;
(c) to lease properties or to purchase properties or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such indebtedness or obligation of the ability of any other Person to make payment of the indebtedness or obligation; or
(d) otherwise to assure the owner of such indebtedness or obligation against loss in respect thereof.
In any computation of the indebtedness or other liabilities of the obligor under any Guaranty, the indebtedness or other obligations that are the subject of such Guaranty shall be assumed to be direct obligations of such obligor.
"" means any and all pollutants, toxic or hazardous wastes or any other substances that might pose a hazard to health or safety, the removal of which may be required or the generation, manufacture, refining, production, processing, treatment, storage, handling, transportation, transfer, use, disposal, release, discharge, spillage, seepage, or filtration of which is or shall be restricted, prohibited or penalized by any applicable law (including, without limitation, asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation and polycholorinated biphenyls).
Hazardous Material
"" means, with respect to any Note, the Person in whose name such Note is registered in the register maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 13.1.
holder
"" is defined in Section 6.2(e).
INHAM Exemption
"" means (a) any original purchaser of a Note, (b) any holder of more than $2,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, and (c) any bank, trust company, savings and loan association or other financial institution, any pension plan, any investment company, any insurance company, any broker or dealer, or any other similar financial institution or entity, regardless of legal form.
Institutional Investor
 
"" means, with respect to any Series B Note, the dates specified in Exhibit 1(c).
Interest Payment Date
"" in respect of any Person means, at the time of determination, at least one of the following ratings of its senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness for borrowed money pari passu with the Notes: (i) by Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, or any successor thereof ("S&P"), "BBB-" or better, (ii) by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor thereof ("Moody's"), "Baa3" or better, or (iii) by another rating agency of recognized national standing, an equivalent or better rating.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means, with respect to any Person, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other encumbrance, or any interest or title of any vendor, lessor, lender or other secured party to or of such Person under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or Capital Lease, upon or with respect to any property or asset of such Person (including in the case of stock, stockholder agreements, voting trust agreements and all similar arrangements).
Lien
means, collectively, the Credit Agreement, the Term Loan Agreement and any other credit, term loan, note purchase or similar agreement providing for loans or other extensions of credit, including the issuance and sale of senior notes, to the Company and one or more of its Subsidiaries and under or pursuant to which one or more of the Company's subsidiaries is a borrower, obligor or guarantor.
"Loan Agreements"
"" is defined in Section 8.7.
Make-Whole Amount
"" means material in relation to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the ability of any Obligor to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, or (c) the ability of any Subsidiary Guarantor to perform its obligation under the Subsidiary Guaranty, or (d) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, the Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Material Adverse Effect
means (i) PDSI, Webster, Webster Management, Patterson Medical, Medical Holdings and Dental Holdings, and (ii) any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Company (other than an SPV) that meets one or both of the following criteria: (i) such Domestic Subsidiary's total assets, determined on a consolidated basis with its Subsidiaries is 15% or more of the Consolidated Total Assets; or (ii) such Domestic Subsidiary's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income is 15% or more of the Company's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income, in each case for the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended.
"Material Domestic Subsidiary"
 
is defined in the preamble.
"Medical Holdings"
"" is defined in Section 5.3.
Memorandum
"" means any Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" (as such term is defined in section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA).
Multiemployer Plan
"" is defined in Section 6.2(a).
NAIC Annual Statement
"" means, with respect to any Transfer of any property by any Person, an amount equal to:
Net Proceeds Amount
(a) the aggregate amount of the consideration (valued at the fair market value of such consideration at the time of the consummation of such Transfer) received by such Person in respect of such Transfer, minus
(b) all ordinary and reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses actually incurred by such Person in connection with such Transfer.
"" is defined in Section 10.6(b).
Non-Obligor Subsidiary
"" is defined in Section 1.
Notes
"" means the Company and its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, Medical Holdings, Patterson Medical, PDSI, Dental Holdings, Webster and Webster Management, and any other Subsidiary that assumes the obligations of an Obligor pursuant to Section 10.6(b).
Obligors
"" means a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer or of any other officer of the Company whose responsibilities extend to the subject matter of such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
"" is defined in Section 2.
Other Purchasers
is defined in the preamble.
"Patterson Medical"
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA or any successor thereto.
PBGC
is defined in the preamble.
"PDSI"
"" means a transaction or series of transactions in which the Company or any Subsidiary sells receivables, other than those derived from Customer Installment Contracts, directly or indirectly to a special purpose entity, satisfying the following criteria: (i) such sale is pursuant to an agreement or agreements evidencing the intent of the parties that for accounting and all other purposes, such sale is to be treated as a sale by the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and a purchase by such special purpose entity (and not as a lending transaction); (ii) the agreement(s) referred to in clause (i) provide for the delivery of opinions of outside counsel to the effect that, under,
Permitted Receivables Securitization Transaction
 
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws (subject to assumptions and qualifications customary for opinions of such type), such transaction will be treated as a true sale and not as a lending transaction and that the assets of any purchasing special purpose entity will not be consolidated with the assets of the selling entity, the Company or any Affiliate of the Company; (iii) the parties to such transaction shall treat such transaction as a sale for all other accounting purposes; (iv) the purchase price shall be an amount that represents the reasonably equivalent value of the receivables or other assets subject thereto (determined as of the date of such sale); (v) such sale shall be without recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary, except to the extent of normal and customary conditions that are consistent with the opinion referred to in clause (ii); and (vi) the aggregate principal amount outstanding in connection with all such transactions does not exceed $200,000,000 at any time.
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means an "employee benefit plan" (as defined in section 3(3) of ERISA) that is or, within the preceding five years, has been established or maintained, or to which contributions are or, within the preceding five years, have been made or required to be made, by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or with respect to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Plan
"" is defined in Section 8.2(b)(i).
Prepayment Offer
"" means, as of any date, the sum (without duplication) of (a) outstanding unsecured Debt of Subsidiaries (other than Obligors) not otherwise permitted by Sections 10.5(a) through (d) and (b) Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by Sections 10.4(a) through (i).
Priority Debt
"" or "" means, unless otherwise specifically limited, real or personal property of any kind, tangible or intangible, choate or inchoate.
property
properties
"" means, with respect to any Transfer of property, the application of an amount equal to the Net Proceeds Amount with respect to such Transfer to the acquisition by the Company or any Subsidiary of operating assets of the Company or such Subsidiary to be used in the principal business of such Person as conducted immediately prior to such Transfer.
Property Reinvestment Application
"" means each purchaser listed in Schedule A.
Purchaser
"" means any acquisition of either or both the Capital Stock or assets of any Person or Persons (or any portion thereof), or the last to occur of a series of such acquisitions consummated within a period of six consecutive months, if the aggregate amount of Debt incurred by one or more of the Obligors and their Subsidiaries to finance the purchase price of, or assumed by one or more of them in connection with the acquisition of, such stock and property is at least $100,000,000.
Qualified Acquisition
 
"" is defined in Section 6.2(d).
QPAM Exemption
"" means, in respect of any holder of any Note and any Transfer contemplated by the definition of Debt Prepayment Application, an amount equal to the product of (x) the Net Proceeds Amount being applied to the payment of Senior Debt in connection with such Transfer multiplied by (y) a fraction the numerator of which is the outstanding principal amount of such Note at the time of such Transfer and the denominator of which is the aggregate principal amount of Senior Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries at the time of such Transfer determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Ratable Portion
"" means, at any time, the holders of at least 51% in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding (exclusive of Notes then owned by any Obligor or any of its Affiliates).
Required Holders
"" means any Senior Financial Officer and any other officer of the Company with responsibility for the administration of the relevant portion of this Agreement.
Responsible Officer
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" means (a) any Debt of any Obligor, other than any Debt that is in any manner subordinated in right of payment or security in any respect to the Notes, and (b) any Debt of any Subsidiary.
Senior Debt
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or comptroller of the Company.
Senior Financial Officer
"" is defined in Section 1.1.
Series A-1 Notes
"" is defined in Section 1.1.
Series A-2 Notes
"" is defined in Section 1.1.
Series A-3 Notes
"" is defined in Section 6.2.
Source
means any special purpose entity established for the purpose of purchasing receivables in connection with a Permitted Receivables Securitization Transaction or Contract Purchase Facility.
"SPV"
"" means, as to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity in which such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries owns sufficient equity or voting interests to enable it or them (as a group) ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, to elect a majority of the directors (or Persons performing similar functions) of such entity, and any partnership, limited liability company or joint venture if more than a 50% interest in the profits or capital thereof is owned by such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries (unless such partnership, limited liability company or joint venture can and does ordinarily take major
Subsidiary
 
business actions without the prior approval of such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries). Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to a "Subsidiary" is a reference to a Subsidiary of the Company.
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company that executes and delivers, or becomes a party to, the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" is defined in Section 9.7.
Subsidiary Guaranty
"" means, with respect to any Person, the capital stock (or any options or warrants to purchase stock, shares or other securities exchangeable for or convertible into stock or shares) of any Subsidiary of such Person.
Subsidiary Stock
"" means, with respect to any Person, payment obligations with respect to interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar obligations obligating such Person to make payments, whether periodically or upon the happening of a contingency. For the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of the obligation under any Swap shall be the amount determined in respect thereof as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of such Person, based on the assumption that such Swap had terminated at the end of such fiscal quarter, and in making such determination, if any agreement relating to such Swap provides for the netting of amounts payable by and to such Person thereunder or if any such agreement provides for the simultaneous payment of amounts by and to such Person, then in each such case, the amount of such obligation shall be the net amount so determined.
Swaps
means the Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 20, 2008 among the Company, the lenders from time to time party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as administrative agent as such agreement may be amended, restated, supplemented, refinanced, increased or reduced from time to time, and any successor term loan agreement or similar facility.
"Term Loan Agreement"
"" or "" is defined in Section 17.3.
this Agreement
the Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Person, any transaction in which such Person sells, conveys, transfers or leases (as lessor) any of its property, including Subsidiary Stock. For purposes of determining the application of the Net Proceeds Amount in respect of any Transfer, the Company may designate any Transfer as one or more separate Transfers each yielding a separate Net Proceeds Amount. In any such case, (a) the Disposition Value of any property subject to each such separate Transfer and (b) the amount of Consolidated Total Assets attributable to any property subject to each such separate Transfer shall be determined by ratably allocating the aggregate Disposition Value of, and the aggregate Consolidated Total Assets attributable to, all property subject to all such separate Transfers to each such separate Transfer on a proportionate basis.
Transfer
"" is defined in Section 8.2(b)(i).
Transfer Prepayment Date
 
"" means Public Law 107-56 of the United States of America, United and Strengthening America by Providing Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT) Act of 2001.
USA Patriot Act
means, with respect to any Person, any class of shares of stock or other equity interests of such Person having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managing entities, as appropriate, of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes or other equity interests of such Person shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
"Voting Stock"
"" is defined in the preamble.
Webster
"" is defined in the preamble.
Webster Management
" means when applied to any Debt at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing (i) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required scheduled payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof, by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment, by (ii) the then outstanding principal amount of such Debt.
Weighted Average Life to Maturity"
"" means, at any time, any Subsidiary 100% of all of the equity interests (except directors' qualifying shares) and voting interests of which are owned by any one or more of the Company and the Company's other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries at such time.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 

Exhibit 10.2
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2008 (as it may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement"), is entered into by and among Patterson Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, as the Borrower, the Lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago)), as administrative agent, (in such capacity, and together with its branches and affiliates, the "Agent").
The parties hereto agree as follows:
1.1. . As used in this Agreement:
Certain Defined Terms
"Accounting Changes" is defined in Section 9.8 hereof.
"Accounts" means the Borrower's or a Subsidiary's right to the payment of money from the sale, lease or other disposition of goods or other assets by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, a rendering of services by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, a loan by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, the overpayment of taxes or other liabilities of the Borrower, or otherwise, however such right to payment may be evidenced, together with all other rights and interests (including all liens and security interests) that the Borrower or Subsidiary may at any time have against any account debtor or other party obligated thereon or against any of the property of such account debtor or other party.
"Acquisition" means any transaction, or any series of related transactions, consummated on or after the Closing Date, by which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) acquires any going concern business or all or substantially all of the assets of any Person, or division thereof, whether through purchase of assets, merger or otherwise or (ii) directly or indirectly acquires from one or more Persons (in one transaction or as the most recent transaction in a series of transactions) at least a majority (in number of votes) of the securities of a corporation which have ordinary voting power for the election of directors (other than securities having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) or a majority (by percentage of voting power) of the outstanding ownership interests of a partnership or limited liability company of any Person.
"Affected Lenders" is defined in Section 2.15.
"Affiliate" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if the controlling Person is the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 10% or more of any class of voting securities (or other ownership interests) of the controlled Person or possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the controlled Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, including its branches and affiliates, in its capacity as contractual representative of the Lenders pursuant to Article X, and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, as Administrative Agent, and any successor Agent appointed pursuant to Article X.
"Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure" means, at any time, the aggregate of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of all the Lenders.
"Agreement" means this Term Loan Credit Agreement, as it may be further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and as in effect from time to time.
"Agreement Accounting Principles" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the financial statements of the Borrower referred to in Section 5.4; , , that except as provided in Section 9.8, with respect to the calculation of the financial covenants set forth in Sections 6.20, 6.21 and 6.22 (and the defined terms used in such Sections), "Agreement Accounting Principles" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States as of the Closing Date, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the financial statements of the Borrower referred to in Section 5.4 hereof.
provided
however
"Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a fluctuating rate of interest per annum equal to the higher of (i) the Prime Rate for such day and (ii) the sum of (a) the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day and (b) one-half of one percent (0.5% ) per annum.
"Applicable Margin" means, with respect to Borrowings of any Type at any time, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to Borrowings of such Type as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.
"Approved Fund" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (i) a Lender, (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender or (iii) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
"Arranger" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and its successors, in its capacity as Lead Arranger and Sole Book Runner.
"Article" means an article of this Agreement unless another document is specifically referenced.
"Assignment Agreement" is defined in Section 12.3.1.
"Authorized Officer" means, for any Person, any of the chief executive officer, president, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or assistant treasurer of such Person, acting singly.
"Borrower" means Patterson Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and its permitted successors and assigns (including, without limitation, a debtor in possession on its behalf).
 
"Borrowing" means a borrowing hereunder consisting of the aggregate amount of the several Loans (i) made by the Lenders on the Borrowing Date, or (ii) converted or continued by the Lenders on the same date of conversion or continuation, consisting, in either case, of the aggregate amount of the several Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, for the same Interest Period.
"Borrowing Date" means a date on which a Borrowing is made hereunder.
"Borrowing Notice" is defined in Section 2.3.
"Business Day" means (i) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurocurrency Borrowings, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in Chicago, Illinois for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities, interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system and dealings in Dollars are carried on in the London interbank market and (ii) for all other purposes, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in Chicago, Illinois for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
"Capitalized Lease" of a Person means any lease of Property by such Person as lessee which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
"Capitalized Lease Obligations" of a Person means the amount of the obligations of such Person under Capitalized Leases which would be shown as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
"Cash Equivalent Investments" means (i) short-term obligations of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States of America, (ii) commercial paper rated A-1 or better by S&P or P-1 or better by Moody's, (iii) demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business, (iv) certificates of deposit issued by and time deposits with commercial banks (whether domestic or foreign) having capital and surplus in excess of $100,000,000, and (v) money market funds investing primarily in assets of the type described in  and  of this definition; provided in each case that the same provides for payment of both principal and interest (and not principal alone or interest alone) and is not subject to any contingency regarding the payment of principal or interest.
clauses (i)
(ii)
"Change in Capital Adequacy Regulations" is defined in Section 3.2.
"Change in Control" means (i) the acquisition by any Person, or two or more Persons acting in concert, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 30% or more of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Borrower; (ii) other than pursuant to a transaction otherwise permitted under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cease to own, directly or indirectly and free and clear of all Liens or other encumbrances, all of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Guarantors on a fully diluted basis; (iii) the majority of the Board of Directors of the Borrower fails to consist of Continuing Directors or (iv) any "Change of Control" (or similar term) under (and as defined in) the 2003 Note Purchase Agreement, the 2003 Senior Notes, the 2008 Note Purchase Agreement or the 2008 Senior Notes shall have occurred.
 
"Change in Law" is defined in Section 3.1.
"Closing Date" means March 20, 2008.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, reformed or otherwise modified from time to time, and any rule or regulation issued thereunder.
"Commitment" means, for each Lender, such Lender's obligation to make Loans to the Borrower in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount set forth for such Lender on the Commitment Schedule or in any Assignment Agreement delivered pursuant to Section 12.3, as such amount may be modified from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
"Commitment Schedule" means the Schedule identifying each Lender's Commitment as of the Closing Date attached hereto and identified as such.
"Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA" means, as to any Person for any period, the sum of Consolidated EBIT for such period consolidated depreciation and amortization for such period. For Persons acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary during the relevant measurement period, their EBITDA results will be included in the calculation of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA as if those Persons were owned by the Borrower or such Subsidiary for the entire reporting period. Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA will be calculated on a rolling four-quarter basis.
plus
"Consolidated Adjusted Net Income" means, as to any Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person, provided that, for Persons acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary during the relevant measurement period, their Consolidated Net Income will be included in the calculation of Consolidated Adjusted Net Income as if those Persons were owned by the Borrower or such Subsidiary for the entire reporting period. Consolidated Adjusted Net Income will be calculated on a rolling four-quarter basis.
"Consolidated EBIT" means, as to any Person and with reference to any period, Consolidated Net Income plus, to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, and (ii) expense for federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes paid or accrued, all calculated for such Person and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
"Consolidated Interest Expense" means, as to any Person and with reference to any period, the interest expense of such Person and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period including, without limitation, such interest expense as may be attributable to capitalized leases, receivables transaction financing costs, the discount or implied interest component of off-balance sheet liabilities, all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to Letters of Credit and Net Mark-to-Market Exposure.
"Consolidated Net Income" means as to any Person and with reference to any period, the net income (or loss) of such Person and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period, excluding any non-cash charges or gains which are unusual, non-recurring or extraordinary.
 
"Consolidated Total Debt" means (i) all indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, reflected on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, plus, without duplication (ii) the face amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit in respect of which the Borrower or any Subsidiary has any reimbursement obligation and the principal amount of all Contingent Obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, plus Capitalized Lease Obligations, plus obligations arising from the sale of accounts receivable and other forms of off-balance sheet financing, including Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities.
"Contingent Obligation" of a Person means any agreement, undertaking or arrangement by which such Person assumes, guarantees, endorses, contingently agrees to purchase or provide funds for the payment of, or otherwise becomes or is contingently liable upon, the obligation or liability of any other Person, or agrees to maintain the net worth or working capital or other financial condition of any other Person, or otherwise assures any creditor of such other Person against loss, including, without limitation, any comfort letter, operating agreement, take-or-pay contract, application for a Letter of Credit or the obligations of any such Person as general partner of a partnership with respect to the liabilities of the partnership.
"Continuing Director" means, with respect to any Person as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of such Person who (i) was a member of such board of directors on the Closing Date, or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of the required majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board at the time of such nomination or election; provided that if any individual who is so elected or nominated in connection with a merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction and who was not a Continuing Director prior thereto, together with all other individuals so elected or nominated in connection with such merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction who were not Continuing Directors prior thereto, constitute a majority of the members of the board of directors of such Person, such individual shall not be a Continuing Director.
"Controlled Group" means all members of a controlled group of corporations or other business entities and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
"Conversion/Continuation Notice" is defined in Section 2.5.
"Credit Party" means, collectively, the Borrower and each of the Guarantors.
"Default" means an event described in Article VII.
"Dental Holdings" means Patterson Dental Holdings, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
"Designated Lender" means, with respect to each Designating Lender, each Eligible Designee designated by such Designating Lender pursuant to Section 12.1.2.
 
"Designating Lender" means, with respect to each Designated Lender, the Lender that designated such Designated Lender pursuant to Section 12.1.2.
"Designation Agreement" is defined in Section 12.1.2.
"Disqualified Stock" means any preferred or other capital stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is ninety-one (91) days after the Maturity Date.
"Dollar" and "$" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
"Domestic Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of any Person that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
"Eligible Designee" means a special purpose corporation, partnership, trust, limited partnership or limited liability company that is administered by the respective Designating Lender or an Affiliate of such Designating Lender and (i) is organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof, (ii) is engaged primarily in making, purchasing or otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business and (iii) issues (or the parent of which issues) commercial paper rated at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or P-1 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's.
"Environmental Laws" means any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, judicial decisions, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, plans, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements and other governmental restrictions relating to (i) the protection of the environment, (ii) the effect of the environment on human health, (iii) emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances or wastes into surface water, ground water or land, or (iv) the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances or wastes or the clean-up or other remediation thereof.
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Eurocurrency Borrowing" means a Borrowing which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.8, bears interest at the applicable Eurocurrency Rate.
"Eurocurrency Loan" means a Loan which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.8, bears interest at the applicable Eurocurrency Rate.
"Eurocurrency Rate" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (i) the result of (a) the Eurocurrency Reference Rate applicable to such Interest Period, divided by (b) one minus the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, if any, multiplied by (c) the Statutory Reserve Rate and (ii) the then Applicable Margin, changing as and when the Applicable Margin changes.
 
"Eurocurrency Reference Rate" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing for the relevant Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in Dollars as reflected on the applicable Reuters screen as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, , if no such British Bankers' Association LIBOR rate is available to the Agent, the applicable Eurocurrency Reference Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Agent to be the rate at which JPMorgan or one of its affiliate banks offers to place deposits in Dollars with first-class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, in the approximate amount of JPMorgan's relevant Eurocurrency Loan and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
provided that
"Excluded Taxes" means, in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by (i) the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent is incorporated or organized or any political combination or subdivision or taxing authority thereof or (ii) the jurisdiction in which the Agent's or such Lender's principal executive office is located.
"Exhibit" refers to an exhibit to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
"Existing Revolving Credit Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of November 28, 2007, entered into among the Borrower, certain Subsidiaries of the Borrower, the Agent and the lenders party thereto, as amended or otherwise modified from time to time.
"Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations at approximately 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three (3) Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Agent in its sole discretion.
"Floating Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) the Alternate Base Rate for such day, changing when and as the Alternate Base Rate changes plus (ii) the then Applicable Margin, changing as and when the Applicable Margin changes.
"Floating Rate Borrowing" means a Borrowing which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.8, bears interest at the Floating Rate.
"Floating Rate Loan" means a Loan which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.8, bears interest at the Floating Rate.
"Foreign Subsidiary" means (i) any Subsidiary that is not organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located in the United States of America and (ii) any Subsidiary of a Person described in clause (i) hereof that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located in the United States of America.
 
"Foreign Subsidiary Investment" means the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all intercompany loans made on or after the Closing Date from any Credit Party to any Foreign Subsidiary; (ii) all outstanding Investments made on or after the Closing Date by any Credit Party in any Foreign Subsidiary; and (iii) an amount equal to the net benefit derived by the Foreign Subsidiaries resulting from any non-arm's-length transactions, or any other transfer of assets conducted, in each case entered into on or after the Closing Date, between any Credit Party, on the one hand, and such Foreign Subsidiaries, on the other hand, other than (a) transactions in the ordinary course of business and (b) in respect of legal, accounting, reporting, listing and similar administrative services provided by any Credit Party to any such Foreign Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice.
"Fund" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
"Guarantor" means each of the Borrower's Material Domestic Subsidiaries which become Guarantors in satisfaction of the provisions of Section 6.23, in each case, together with their respective permitted successors and assigns.
"Guaranty" means the Guaranty, in substantially the form of Exhibit G, entered into by each Guarantor in favor of the Agent for the benefit of the Holders of Obligations, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
"Holders of Obligations" means the holders of the Obligations and the Rate Management Obligations and shall refer to (i) each Lender in respect of its Loan, (ii) the Agent and the Lenders in respect of all other present and future obligations and liabilities of the Borrower or any of its Domestic Subsidiaries of every type and description arising under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (iii) each Person benefiting from indemnities made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary hereunder or under other Loan Documents in respect of the obligations and liabilities of the Borrower or such Subsidiary to such Person, (iv) each Lender, in respect of all Rate Management Obligations owing to any Person in such Person's capacity as exchange party or counterparty under any Rate Management Transaction so long as such Person is (or, at the time such Person entered into such Rate Management Transaction, was) a Lender or an affiliate of a Lender, and (v) their respective permitted successors, transferees and assigns.
"Indebtedness" of a Person means, at any time, without duplication, such Person's (i) obligations for borrowed money, (ii) obligations representing the deferred purchase price of Property or services (other than current accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of such Person's business payable on terms customary in the trade), (iii) obligations, whether or not assumed, secured by Liens or payable out of the proceeds or production from Property now or hereafter owned or acquired by such Person, (iv) obligations which are evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures, acceptances, or other instruments, (v) obligations to purchase securities or other Property arising out of or in connection with the sale of the same or substantially similar
 
securities or Property, (vi) Capitalized Lease Obligations, (vii) Contingent Obligations of such Person, (viii) reimbursement obligations under letters of credit, bankers' acceptances, surety bonds and similar instruments (ix) Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, (x) obligations under Sale and Leaseback Transactions, (xi) Net Mark-to-Market Exposure under Rate Management Transactions, (xii) Disqualified Stock, and (xiii) any other obligation for borrowed money or other financial accommodation which in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles would be shown as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet of such Person.
"Indemnification Letter" means a written agreement pursuant to which the Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agent and the Lenders in accordance with Section 3.4 of this Agreement in the event any Eurocurrency Borrowing is not made on the Closing Date for any reason.
"Interest Expense Coverage Ratio" is defined in Section 6.21.
"Interest Period" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing, a period of one, two, three or six months, commencing on a Business Day selected by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. Such Interest Period shall end on but exclude the day which corresponds numerically to such date one, two, three or six months thereafter, , that if there is no such numerically corresponding day in such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month. If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day, , that if said next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day.
provided, however
provided, however
"Investment" of a Person means any loan, advance (other than commission, travel, relocation and similar advances to directors, officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), extension of credit (other than accounts receivable arising in the ordinary course of business on terms customary in the trade) or contribution of capital by such Person; stocks, bonds, mutual funds, partnership interests, notes, debentures or other securities owned by such Person; any deposit accounts and certificates of deposit owned by such Person; and structured notes, derivative financial instruments and other similar instruments or contracts owned by such Person.
"JPMorgan" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago)), in its individual capacity, and its successors.
"Lenders" means the lending institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
"Letter of Credit" of a Person means a letter of credit or similar instrument which is issued upon the application of such Person or upon which such Person is an account party or for which such Person is in any way liable.
"Leverage Ratio" means, as the end of any of the Borrower's fiscal quarters, the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt as of the end of such fiscal quarter to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended; provided, that the Leverage Ratio shall be calculated, with respect to Permitted Acquisitions, on a pro forma basis using historical financial statements and containing reasonable adjustments satisfactory to the Agent, broken down by fiscal quarter in the Borrower's reasonable judgment.
 
"Lien" means any lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, Capitalized Lease or other title retention agreement, and, in the case of stock, stockholders agreements, voting trust agreements and all similar arrangements).
"Loan" means, with respect to a Lender, such Lender's loan made pursuant to its commitment to lend set forth in Section 2.1 (and any conversion or continuation thereof).
"Loan Documents" means this Agreement, the Guaranty, and all other documents, instruments, notes (including any Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.10 (if requested)) and agreements executed in connection herewith or therewith or contemplated hereby or thereby, as the same may be amended, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
"Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operations, performance or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) the ability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents, (iii) the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or (iv) the rights or remedies of the Agent or the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents.
"Material Domestic Subsidiary" means (i) PDSI, Webster, Webster Management, Patterson Medical, Medical Holdings and Dental Holdings, and (ii) any other Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than an SPV) that meets one or both of the following criteria: (i) such Domestic Subsidiary's total assets, determined on a consolidated basis with its Subsidiaries is greater than or equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; or (ii) such Domestic Subsidiary's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income is greater than or equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the Borrower's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income, in each case for the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended.
"Material Indebtedness" means any Indebtedness in an outstanding principal amount of $10,000,000 or more in the aggregate (or the equivalent thereof in any currency other than Dollars).
"Material Indebtedness Agreement" means any agreement under which any Material Indebtedness was created or is governed or which provides for the incurrence of Indebtedness in an amount which would constitute Material Indebtedness (whether or not an amount of Indebtedness constituting Material Indebtedness is outstanding thereunder).
"Maturity Date" means March 20, 2013.
"Medical Holdings" means Patterson Medical Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Services, Inc. and any successor thereto.
 
"Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, which is covered by Title IV of ERISA and to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group is obligated to make contributions.
"Net Mark-to-Market Exposure" of a Person means, as of any date of determination, the excess (if any) of all unrealized losses over all unrealized profits of such Person arising from Rate Management Transactions. "Unrealized losses" means the fair market value of the cost to such Person of replacing such Rate Management Transaction as of the date of determination (assuming the Rate Management Transaction were to be terminated as of that date), and "unrealized profits" means the fair market value of the gain to such Person of replacing such Rate Management Transaction as of the date of determination (assuming such Rate Management Transaction were to be terminated as of that date).
"Non-U.S. Lender" is defined in Section 3.5(iv).
"Note" is defined in Section 2.10.
"Obligations" means all Loans, advances, debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties owing by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Agent, any Lender, the Arranger, any affiliate of the Agent, any Lender or the Arranger, or any indemnitee under the provisions of Section 9.6 or any other provisions of the Loan Documents, in each case of any kind or nature, present or future, arising under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, whether or not evidenced by any note, guaranty or other instrument, whether or not for the payment of money, whether arising by reason of an extension of credit, loan, foreign exchange risk, guaranty, indemnification, or in any other manner, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assignment), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and however acquired. The term includes, without limitation, all interest, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements, paralegals' fees (in each case whether or not allowed), and any other sum chargeable to the Borrower or any Subsidiary under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
"Off-Balance Sheet Liability" of a Person means the principal component of (i) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (ii) any liability under any Sale and Leaseback Transaction which is not a Capitalized Lease, (iii) any liability under any so-called "synthetic lease" or "tax ownership operating lease" transaction entered into by such Person, (iv) any Receivables Purchase Facility or (v) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the consolidated balance sheets of such Person, but excluding from this clause (v) all Operating Leases.
"Off-Balance Sheet Trigger Event" is defined in Section 7.17.
"Operating Lease" of a Person means any lease of Property (other than a Capitalized Lease) by such Person as lessee which has an original term (including any required renewals and any renewals effective at the option of the lessor) of one year or more.
"Other Taxes" is defined in Section 3.5(ii).
 
"Outstanding Credit Exposure" means, as to any Lender at any time, the aggregate principal amount of its Loan outstanding at such time.
"Participants" is defined in Section 12.2.1.
"Patterson Medical" means Patterson Medical Supply, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
"Payment Date" means the last day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
"PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any successor thereto.
"PDSI" means Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
"Permitted Acquisition" is defined in Section 6.13.5.
"Permitted Purchase Money Indebtedness" is defined in Section 6.14.5.
"Person" means any natural person, corporation, firm, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company, association, enterprise, trust or other entity or organization, or any government or political subdivision or any agency, department or instrumentality thereof.
"Plan" means an employee pension benefit plan, excluding any Multiemployer Plan, which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code as to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group may have any liability.
"Pricing Schedule" means the Schedule identifying the Applicable Margin attached hereto and identified as such.
"Prime Rate" means a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest announced from time to time by JPMorgan as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City, changing when and as said prime rate changes.
"Projections" is defined in Section 4.1.7.
"Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage obtained by dividing such Lender's Outstanding Credit Exposure at such time by the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure at such time.
"Property" of a Person means any and all property, whether real, personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned, leased or operated by such Person.
"Purchase Price" means the total consideration and other amounts payable in connection with any Acquisition, including, without limitation, any portion of the consideration payable in cash, all Indebtedness, liabilities and contingent obligations incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition and all transaction costs and expenses incurred in connection with such Acquisition, but exclusive of the value of any capital stock or other equity interests of the Borrower or any Subsidiary issued as consideration for such Acquisition.
 
"Purchasers" is defined in Section 12.3.1.
"Rate Management Obligations" of a Person means any and all obligations of such Person, whether absolute or contingent and howsoever and whensoever created, arising, evidenced or acquired (including all renewals, extensions and modifications thereof and substitutions therefor), under (i) any and all Rate Management Transactions, and (ii) any and all cancellations, buy backs, reversals, terminations or assignments of any Rate Management Transactions.
"Rate Management Transaction" means any transaction (including an agreement with respect thereto) now existing or hereafter entered into by the Borrower or a Subsidiary which is a rate swap, basis swap, forward rate transaction, commodity swap, commodity option, equity or equity index swap, equity or equity index option, bond option, interest rate option, foreign exchange transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction, collar transaction, forward transaction, currency swap transaction, cross-currency rate swap transaction, currency option or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or any combination thereof, whether linked to one or more interest rates, foreign currencies, commodity prices, equity prices or other financial measures.
"Receivables Purchase Documents" means each of (i) that certain Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of May 10, 2002, among the originators named therein and PDC Funding Company, LLC, as buyer and that certain Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of May 10, 2002, among PDC Funding Company, LLC, the Borrower, Preferred Receivables Funding Corporation, the financial institutions party thereto and JPMorgan (successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago)), as agent, as such agreements may be amended, restated, extended or otherwise modified from time to time, (ii) that certain Contract Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 27, 2007, among PDC Funding Company II, LLC, the Borrower, the financial institutions party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as agent, and that certain Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of April 27, 2007, among the originators named therein and PDC Funding Company II, LLC, as purchaser, which agreements amend and restate that certain Third Amended and Restated Contract Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2002, among the Borrower, PDSI, Webster, U.S. Bank National Association, individually and as agent, and certain buyers identified therein, as such agreements may be amended, restated, extended or otherwise modified from time to time and (iii) any comparable additional or replacement facility made available to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, provided that any such facility: (a) provides for the sale by the Borrower or such Subsidiary of rights to payment; (b) evidences the intent of the parties that for accounting and all other purposes, such sale is to be treated as a sale by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, and a purchase by the transferee (and not as a lending transaction); (c) provides for the delivery of such true sale, non-consolidation and other opinions of outside counsel as are then customary or required in connection with such a transaction; (d) the parties to such transaction treat such transaction as a sale for all other accounting purposes; and (e) such sale is without recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary, except to the extent of normal and customary conditions and rights of limited recourse that are consistent with the opinions referred to in clause (c) and with the treatment of such sale as a true sale for accounting purpose.
 
"Receivables Purchase Facility" means (i) the transactions contemplated by the Receivables Purchase Documents and (ii) other sales (including licenses), with limited recourse, or no recourse, by PDSI, Webster, Webster Management, Patterson Medical, or Medical Holdings of Accounts derived from sales on contract of furnishings and equipment (but not, however, (a) open account sales of supplies or (b) Accounts derived from provisions of services).
"Regulation D" means Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor thereto or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to reserve requirements applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
"Regulation U" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to the extension of credit by banks, non-banks and non-broker lenders for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System.
"Regulation X" means Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to the extension of credit by foreign lenders for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (as defined therein).
"Reportable Event" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued under such section, with respect to a Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA, excluding, however, such events as to which the PBGC has by regulation waived the requirement of Section 4043(a) or (b) of ERISA that it be notified within 30 days of the occurrence of such event, , that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code and of Section 302 of ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waiver of the notice requirement in accordance with either Section 4043(a) or (b) of ERISA or Section 412(d) of the Code.
provided, however
"Required Lenders" means Lenders in the aggregate having more than 50% of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.
"Reserve Requirement" means, with respect to an Interest Period, the maximum aggregate reserve requirement (including all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves) which is imposed under Regulation D on "Eurocurrency liabilities" (as defined in Regulation D).
"Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" is defined in Section 3.2.
"S&P" means Standard and Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any sale or other transfer of Property by any Person with the intent to lease such Property as lessee.
 
"Schedule" refers to a specific schedule to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
"SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and any successor thereto.
"Section" means a numbered section of this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
"Single Employer Plan" means a Plan maintained by the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group.
"Solvent" means, when used with respect to any Person, that at the time of determination:
 
 
 
With respect to contingent liabilities (such as litigation, guarantees and pension plan liabilities), such liabilities shall be computed at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at the time, represent the amount which can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
"SPV" means any special purpose entity established for the purpose of purchasing receivables in connection with a receivables securitization transaction permitted under the terms of this Agreement.
"Statutory Reserve Rate" means, with respect to any currency, a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve, liquid asset, fees or similar requirements (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves or other requirements) established by any central bank, monetary authority, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Financial Services Authority, the European Central Bank or other governmental authority for any category of deposits or liabilities customarily used to fund loans in such currency, expressed in the case of each such requirement as a decimal. Such reserve percentages shall, in the case of Dollar denominated Loans, include those imposed pursuant to Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to be subject to such reserve, liquid asset or similar requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under any applicable law, rule or regulation, including Regulation D. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve, liquid asset or similar requirement.
 
"Subordinated Indebtedness" of a Person means any Indebtedness of such Person the payment of which is subordinated to payment of the Obligations to the written satisfaction of the Required Lenders.
"Subsidiary" of a Person means (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (ii) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled. Unless otherwise expressly provided, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" shall mean a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
"Substantial Portion" means, with respect to the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Property which represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or property which is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the Consolidated Net Income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in each case, as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the four fiscal quarter period ending with the fiscal quarter immediately prior to the fiscal quarter in which such determination is made (or if financial statements have not been delivered hereunder for that fiscal quarter which ends the four fiscal quarter period, then the financial statements delivered hereunder for the quarter ending immediately prior to that quarter).
"Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities with respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes.
"Transferee" is defined in Section 12.4.
"2003 Note Purchase Agreement" means the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2003, entered into by the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries with respect to their issuance and private placement of senior unsecured debt securities (the "2003 Senior Notes"), as such Note Purchase Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in a manner that is not materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders; provided that no such amendment, modification or supplement shall increase the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the 2003 Senior Notes in excess of the original face amount thereof (less any prepayments made in respect thereof).
"2003 Senior Notes" is defined in the definition of 2003 Note Purchase Agreement.
"2008 Note Purchase Agreement" means the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 2008, entered into by the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries with respect to their issuance and private placement of senior unsecured debt securities (the "2008 Senior Notes"), as such Note Purchase Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in a manner that is not materially adverse to the interests of the Lenders; provided that no such amendment, modification or supplement shall increase the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the 2008 Senior Notes in excess of the original face amount thereof (less any prepayments made in respect thereof).
 
"2008 Senior Notes" is defined in the definition of 2008 Note Purchase Agreement.
"Type" means, with respect to any Borrowing, its nature as a Floating Rate Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing and with respect to any Loan, its nature as a Floating Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Loan.
"Unfunded Liabilities" means the amount (if any) by which the present value of all vested and unvested accrued benefits under each Single Employer Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA exceeds the fair market value of all such Plan's assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan for which a valuation report is available, using PBGC actuarial assumptions for single employer plan terminations.
"Unmatured Default" means an event which but for the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a Default.
"Webster" means Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
"Webster Management" means Webster Management, LP, a Minnesota limited partnership.
"Weighted Average Life to Maturity" means when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing (i) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required scheduled payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect thereof, by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment, by (ii) the then outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness.
"Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" of a Person means (i) any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities (other than directors' qualifying shares) of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (ii) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
1.2. . The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
Plural Forms
2.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make a term loan ("Loan") to the Borrower in Dollars on the Closing Date in a principal amount equal to the amount of such Lender's Commitment. Amounts repaid or prepaid in respect of the Loans may not be reborrowed.
Commitments
 
2.2. .
Loans and Borrowings
2.2.1 Each Loan shall be made as part of a single Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make its Loan shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make its Loans as required.
provided
2.2.2 Subject to Section 3.3, the Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Floating Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith.
2.2.3 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to elect to convert the Borrowing to, or continue the Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
2.3. .
Method of Selecting Types
2.3.1 The Borrower shall select the Type of Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period applicable thereto. The Borrower shall give the Agent irrevocable written notice (a "Borrowing Notice") not later than 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the Borrowing Date for a Floating Rate Borrowing and three (3) Business Days before the Borrowing Date for a Eurocurrency Borrowing, specifying the following:
(a) the Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day, of such Borrowing,
(b) the aggregate amount of such Borrowing,
(c) the Type of Borrowing selected,
(d) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period applicable thereto, and
(e) the payment instructions for the account of the Borrower to which such Borrowing shall be credited.
2.3.2 Notwithstanding Section 2.3.1 hereof, unless the Borrower has delivered to the Agent an Indemnification Letter on or
 
before the third (3rd) Business Day prior to the Closing Date with respect to all Loans requested to be made as Eurocurrency Borrowings on the Closing Date or on or before the third (3rd) Business Day thereafter, the Loans made on the Closing Date or on or before the third (3rd) Business Day thereafter shall initially be Floating Rate Loans and thereafter may be continued as Floating Rate Loans or converted into Eurocurrency Loans in the manner provided in Section 2.5 and subject to the other conditions and limitations therein set forth and set forth in this Article II and set forth in the definition of Interest Period.
2.4. .
Optional Principal Payments; Repayment of Loans
2.4.1 The Borrower may from time to time pay, without penalty or premium, an outstanding Floating Rate Borrowing, or any portion of an outstanding Floating Rate Borrowing, in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, upon one (1) Business Day's prior notice to the Agent by 11:00 a.m. (Chicago time) on the date of any anticipated repayment. The Borrower may from time to time pay, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.4 but without penalty or premium, an outstanding Eurocurrency Borrowing, or any portion of an outstanding Eurocurrency Borrowing, in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, upon three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Agent.
2.4.2 The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date.
2.5. .
Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Borrowings; No Conversion or Continuation of Eurocurrency Borrowings After Default
2.5.1 A Floating Rate Borrowing shall continue as a Floating Rate Borrowing unless and until such Floating Rate Borrowing is converted into a Eurocurrency Borrowing pursuant to this Section 2.5 or is repaid in accordance with Section 2.4. A Eurocurrency Borrowing shall continue as a Eurocurrency Borrowing until the end of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, at which time each such Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be automatically converted into a Floating Rate Borrowing unless (x) such Eurocurrency Borrowing is or was repaid in accordance with Section 2.4 or (y) the Borrower shall have given the Agent a Conversion/Continuation Notice (as defined below) requesting that, at the end of such Interest Period, such Eurocurrency Borrowing either continue as a Eurocurrency Borrowing for the same or another Interest Period or be converted into a Floating Rate Borrowing.
 
2.5.2 Subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.4, the Borrower may elect from time to time to convert a Borrowing of any Type into any other Type of Borrowing; provided that any conversion of a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be made on, and only on, the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 2.5 during the continuance of a Default or an Unmatured Default, the Agent may (or shall at the direction of the Required Lenders), by notice to the Borrower, declare that no Borrowing may be made as, converted to or, following the expiration of any Interest Periods then in effect, continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing.
2.5.3 The Borrower shall give the Agent irrevocable notice (a "Conversion/Continuation Notice") of each conversion of a Borrowing or continuation of a Eurocurrency Borrowing not later than 12:00 noon (Chicago time) on the same Business Day, in the case of a conversion into a Floating Rate Borrowing or three (3) Business Days, in the case of a conversion into or continuation of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, prior to the date of the requested conversion or continuation, specifying:
(i) the requested date, which shall be a Business Day, of such conversion or continuation, and
(ii) the amount and Type of Borrowing into which such Borrowing is to be converted or continued and, in the case of a conversion into or continuation of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the duration of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
2.6. . On the Borrowing Date, each Lender shall make available its Loan not later than 12:00 noon, Chicago time, in Federal or other funds immediately available to the Agent, in Chicago, Illinois at its address specified in or pursuant to Article XIII. Unless the Agent determines that any applicable condition specified in Article IV has not been satisfied, the Agent will make the funds so received from the Lenders available to the Borrower at the Agent's aforesaid address or, if applicable, to the Borrower's account specified on the Borrowing Notice.
Method of Borrowing
2.7. . Each Floating Rate Borrowing shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from and including the date such Borrowing is made or is automatically converted from a Eurocurrency Borrowing into a Floating Rate Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.5, to but excluding the date it is paid or is converted into a Eurocurrency Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.5 hereof, at a rate per annum equal to the Floating
Changes in Interest Rate, etc
 
Rate for such day. Changes in the rate of interest on any Borrowing maintained as a Floating Rate Borrowing will take effect simultaneously with each change in the Alternate Base Rate. Each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but not including) the last day of such Interest Period at the Eurocurrency Rate determined by the Agent as applicable to such Eurocurrency Borrowing based upon the Borrower's selections under Sections 2.3 and 2.5 and otherwise in accordance with the terms hereof.
2.8. . During the continuance of a Default the Required Lenders may, at their option, by notice to the Borrower (which notice may be revoked at the option of the Required Lenders notwithstanding any provision of Section 8.2 requiring unanimous consent of the Lenders to changes in interest rates), declare that (i) each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest for the remainder of the applicable Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Floating Rate in effect from time to time plus 2% per annum and (ii) each Floating Rate Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Floating Rate in effect from time to time plus 2% per annum, provided that, during the continuance of a Default under Section 7.2, 7.3 (solely arising as a result of a breach of any of Sections 6.20 through 6.22), 7.6 or 7.7, the interest rates set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above shall be applicable to all Loans, Borrowings, fees and other Obligations hereunder without any election or action on the part of the Agent or any Lender.
Rates Applicable After Default
2.9. . Each Borrowing shall be repaid and each payment of interest thereon shall be paid in Dollars. All payments of the Obligations hereunder shall be made, without setoff, deduction, or counterclaim, in immediately available funds to the Agent at (except as set forth in the next sentence) the Agent's address specified pursuant to Article XIII, by 12:00 noon (local time) on the date when due and shall be applied ratably by the Agent among the Lenders. Each payment delivered to the Agent for the account of any Lender shall be delivered promptly by the Agent to such Lender in the same type of funds that the Agent received at its address specified pursuant to Article XIII. The Agent is hereby authorized to charge the account of the Borrower maintained with JPMorgan for each payment of the Obligations as it becomes due hereunder.
Method of Payment
2.10. .
Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
2.11. . The Borrower hereby authorizes the Lenders and the Agent to extend, convert or continue Borrowings, effect selections of Types of Borrowings and to transfer funds based on telephonic notices made by any person or persons the Agent or any Lender in good faith believes to be acting on behalf of the Borrower, it being understood that the foregoing authorization is specifically intended to allow Borrowing Notices and Conversion/Continuation Notices to be given telephonically. The Borrower agrees to deliver promptly to the Agent a written confirmation, signed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, if such confirmation is requested by the Agent or any Lender, of each telephonic notice. If the written confirmation differs in any material respect from the action taken by the Agent and the Lenders, the records of the Agent and the Lenders shall govern absent manifest error.
Telephonic Notices
2.12. . Interest accrued on each Floating Rate Borrowing shall be payable in arrears on each Payment Date, commencing with the first Payment Date to occur after the Closing Date, on any date on which the Floating Rate Borrowing is prepaid, whether due to acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity. Interest accrued on the outstanding principal amount of any Floating Rate Borrowing converted into a Eurocurrency Borrowing on a day other than a Payment Date shall be payable on the date of conversion. Interest accrued on each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be payable on the last day of its applicable Interest Period, on any date on which such Eurocurrency Borrowing is prepaid, whether by acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity. Interest accrued on each Eurocurrency Borrowing having an Interest Period longer than three (3) months shall also be payable on the last day of each three-month interval during such Interest Period. Interest on Eurocurrency Borrowings, and all other fees hereunder shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360-day year. Interest on Floating Rate Borrowings shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365/366-day year. Interest shall be payable for the day a Borrowing is made but not for the day of any payment on the amount paid if payment is received prior to 12:00 noon (local time) at the place of payment. If any payment of principal of or interest on a
Interest Payment Dates; Interest and Fee Basis
 
Borrowing, any fees or any other amounts payable to the Agent or any Lender hereunder shall become due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a principal payment, such extension of time shall be included in computing interest, fees and commissions in connection with such payment.
2.13. . Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent will notify each Lender of the contents of each Borrowing Notice, Conversion/Continuation Notice, and repayment notice received by it hereunder. The Agent will notify the Borrower and each Lender of the interest rate applicable to each Eurocurrency Borrowing promptly upon determination of such interest rate and will give the Borrower and each Lender prompt notice of each change in the Alternate Base Rate.
Notification of Borrowings, Interest Rates and Prepayments
2.14. . Unless the Borrower or a Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Agent prior to the date on which it is scheduled to make payment to the Agent of (i) in the case of a Lender, the proceeds of a Loan or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the Agent for the account of the Lenders, that it does not intend to make such payment, the Agent may assume that such payment has been made. The Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment available to the intended recipient in reliance upon such assumption. If such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, has not in fact made such payment to the Agent, the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Agent, repay to the Agent the amount so made available together with interest thereon in respect of each day during the period commencing on the date such amount was so made available by the Agent until the date the Agent recovers such amount at a rate per annum equal to (x) in the case of payment by a Lender, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day for the first three days and, thereafter, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan and (ii) a rate determined by the Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (y) in the case of payment by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan.
Non-Receipt of Funds by the Agent
2.15. . If the Borrower is required pursuant to Section 3.1, 3.2 or 3.5 to make any additional payment to any Lender or if any Lender's obligation to make or continue, or to convert a Floating Rate Borrowing into, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be suspended pursuant to Section 3.3 (any Lender so affected an "Affected Lender"), the Borrower may elect, if such amounts continue to be charged or such suspension is still effective, to terminate or replace such Affected Lender, that no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such termination or replacement, and provided further that, concurrently with such termination or replacement, (i) if the Affected Lender is being replaced, another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Outstanding Credit Exposure of the Affected Lender pursuant to an Assignment Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Affected Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of Section 12.3 applicable to assignments, and (ii) the Borrower shall pay to such Affected Lender in immediately available funds on the day of such replacement (A) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Affected Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Affected Lender under Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.5, and (B) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which
Replacement of Lender
provided
 
would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 3.4 had the Loan of such Affected Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender, in each case to the extent not paid by the replacement Lender and (iii) if the Affected Lender is being terminated, the Borrower shall pay to such Affected Lender all Obligations due to such Affected Lender (including the amounts described in the immediately preceding clauses (i) and (ii) plus the outstanding principal balance of such Affected Lender's Loan).
3.1. . If, on or after the Closing Date, the adoption of any law or any governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any change in any such law, rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive or in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental or quasi-governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency:
Yield Protection
 
 
 
(and such event being a "Change in Law") and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining its Loan or to reduce the return received by such Lender in connection with such Loan, then, within 15 days of demand, accompanied by the written statement required by Section 3.6, by such Lender, the Borrower shall pay such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in amount received.
3.2. . If a Lender determines the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a Change in Capital Adequacy Regulations, then, within 15 days of demand, accompanied by the written statement required by Section 3.6, by such Lender,
Changes in Capital Adequacy Regulations
 
the Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Agreement or its Outstanding Credit Exposure hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy). "Change in Capital Adequacy Regulations" means (i) any change after the Closing Date in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or (ii) any adoption of, or change in, or change in the interpretation or administration of any other law, governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the Closing Date which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any corporation controlling any Lender. "Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" means the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the Closing Date, including transition rules.
3.3. . If (x) any Lender determines that maintenance of its Eurocurrency Loan would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, or directive, whether or not having the force of law, or (y) the Required Lenders determine that (i) deposits of a type, currency and maturity appropriate to match fund Eurocurrency Borrowings are not available or (ii) the interest rate applicable to Eurocurrency Borrowings or does not accurately reflect the cost of making or maintaining Eurocurrency Borrowings, or (iii) no reasonable basis exists for determining the Eurocurrency Reference Rate, then the Agent shall suspend the availability of Eurocurrency Borrowings and require any affected Eurocurrency Borrowings to be repaid or converted to Floating Rate Borrowings on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans or within such earlier period as required by law, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.4.
Availability of Types of Borrowings
3.4. . If any payment of a Eurocurrency Borrowing occurs on a date which is not the last day of the applicable Interest Period, whether because of acceleration, prepayment or otherwise, or a Eurocurrency Borrowing is not made or continued, or a Floating Rate Borrowing is not converted into a Eurocurrency Borrowing, on the date specified by the Borrower for any reason other than default by the Lenders, or a Eurocurrency Borrowing is not prepaid on the date specified by the Borrower for any reason, the Borrower will, indemnify each Lender for any reasonable loss or cost incurred by it resulting therefrom, including, without limitation, any reasonable loss or cost in liquidating or employing deposits acquired to fund or maintain such Eurocurrency Borrowing.
Funding Indemnification
3.5. . (i) All payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all Taxes. If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (a) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 3.5) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (b) the Borrower shall make such deductions, (c) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant authority in accordance with applicable law and (d) the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent the original copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof or, if a receipt cannot be obtained with reasonable efforts, such other evidence of payment as is reasonably acceptable to the Agent, in each case within 30 days after such payment is made.
Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6. . Each Lender shall deliver a written statement of such Lender to the Borrower (with a copy to the Agent) as to the amount due, if any, under Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 or 3.5. Such written statement shall set forth in reasonable detail the calculations upon which such Lender determined such amount and shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Borrower in the absence of manifest error. Determination of amounts payable under such Sections in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan shall be calculated as though each Lender funded its Eurocurrency Loan through the purchase of a deposit of the type, currency and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the Eurocurrency Rate applicable to such Loan, whether in fact that is the case or not. Unless otherwise provided herein, the amount specified in the written statement of any Lender shall be payable on demand after receipt by the Borrower of such written statement. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 and 3.5 shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 or 3.5 shall not constitute a waiver of such
Lender Statements; Survival of Indemnity
 
Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender (or such Lender's holding company) for any amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 or 3.5 incurred more than 180 days prior to the date such Lender notifies the Borrower of the applicable Change in Law (as described in Section 3.1), the applicable Change in Capital Adequacy Regulations (as described in Section 3.2), the applicable event giving rise to funding indemnification (as described in Section 3.4) or the applicable Taxes (as described in Section 3.5) and of such Lender's intention, as the case may be, to claim compensation therefor; provided further that, if any Change in Law or Change in Capital Adequacy Regulations or Taxes giving rise to such requested amounts is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
3.7. . To the extent reasonably possible, each Lender shall designate an alternate lending office or branch with respect to its Eurocurrency Loan to reduce any liability of the Borrower to such Lender under Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.5 or to avoid the unavailability of Eurocurrency Borrowings under Section 3.3, so long as such designation is not, in the judgment of such Lender, reasonably disadvantageous to such Lender. A Lender's designation of an alternative lending office or branch shall not affect the Borrower's rights under Section 2.15 to replace a Lender.
Alternative Lending Office
4.1. . This Agreement shall not become effective, unless on or before March 31, 2008, the following conditions precedent have been satisfied as determined by the Agent in its reasonable discretion and the Borrower has furnished to the Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders:
Effectiveness of this Agreement
4.1.1 Copies of the articles or certificate of incorporation (or the equivalent thereof) of each Credit Party, in each case, together with all amendments thereto, and a certificate of good standing, each certified by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of organization and accompanied by a certification by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of such Credit Party that there have been no changes in the matters certified by such governmental officer since the date of such governmental officer's certification.
4.1.2 Copies, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or the equivalent thereof) of each Credit Party, in each case, of its by-laws and of its Board of Directors' resolutions and of resolutions or actions of any other body authorizing the execution of the Loan Documents to which such Credit Party is a party.
4.1.3 An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or the equivalent thereof) of each Credit Party which shall identify by name and title and bear the signatures of the Authorized Officers and any other officers of each such Credit Party
 
authorized to sign the Loan Documents to which it is a party, upon which certificate the Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the applicable Credit Party.
4.1.4 A certificate reasonably acceptable to the Agent signed by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, stating that on the Closing Date (a) no Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) all of the representations and warranties in Article V shall be true and correct as of such date, (c) no injunction or temporary restraining or other order has been filed or, to the knowledge of the chief financial officer, is threatened against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (d) no litigation, arbitration, governmental investigation, proceeding or inquiry is pending or, to the knowledge of the chief financial officer, threatened against or affecting the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (e) the Borrower is in compliance with all applicable requirements of Regulations U, T and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and (f) no material adverse change in the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operations, performance or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole has occurred since April 28, 2007.
4.1.5 Written opinion of Matthew Levitt, counsel to the Credit Parties, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and addressed to the Lenders in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto.
4.1.6 Duly executed originals of this Agreement from each of the Credit Parties parties thereto and duly executed originals of any Note(s) requested by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.10 payable to the order of each such requesting Lender.
4.1.7 Projections for the five fiscal years following the Closing Date (the "Projections"), together with such information as the Agent may reasonably request to confirm the tax, legal and business assumptions made in such Projections.
4.1.8 Evidence satisfactory to the Agent that the Borrower has paid to the Agent and the Arranger all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Closing Date, including (i) the fees agreed to in the fee letter dated February 22, 2008, among the Agent, the Arranger and the Borrower and (ii) reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
 
4.1.9 Such other documents as any Lender or its counsel may have reasonably requested, including, without limitation, those documents set forth in Exhibit F hereto.
4.1.10 On or about the date of the funding of the Loans by the Lenders hereunder, the Borrower shall issue Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount not less than $250 million pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Agent.
4.1.11 Prior to the funding of the Loans by the Lenders hereunder, the Borrower shall enter into an amendment to Borrower's Existing Revolving Credit Agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Agent.
Each Borrower represents and warrants to each Lender and the Agent as of the Closing Date:
5.1. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is a corporation, partnership (in the case of Subsidiaries only) or limited liability company duly and properly incorporated or organized, as the case may be, validly existing and (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, (ii) has all requisite corporate, partnership or limited liability company power and authority, as the case may be, to own, operate and encumber its Property and (iii) is qualified to do business and is in good standing (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) in all jurisdictions where the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary and where failure to so qualify would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence and Standing
5.2. . Each Credit Party has the requisite corporate, partnership or limited liability company power and authority and legal right to execute and deliver the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder. The execution and delivery by each Credit Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and the performance of its obligations thereunder have been duly authorized by proper corporate, partnership or limited liability company, as the case may be, proceedings, and the Loan Documents to which each Credit Party is a party constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of such Credit Party enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with their terms, except as enforceability may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyances, reorganization or similar laws relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally; (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and (iii) requirements of reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing.
Authorization and Validity
5.3. . Neither the execution and delivery by any Credit Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, nor the consummation by such Credit
No Conflict; Government Consent
 
Party of the transactions therein contemplated, nor compliance by such Credit Party with the provisions thereof will violate (i) any applicable law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding on such Credit Party or (ii) such Credit Party's articles or certificate of incorporation, partnership agreement, certificate of partnership, articles or certificate of organization, by-laws, or operating agreement or other management agreement, as the case may be, or (iii) the provisions of any indenture, instrument or agreement to which such Credit Party is a party or is subject, or by which it, or its Property, is bound, or conflict with, or constitute a default under, or result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien in, of or on the Property of such Credit Party pursuant to the terms of, any such indenture, instrument or agreement. No order, consent, adjudication, approval, license, authorization, or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, or other action in respect of any governmental or public body or authority, or any subdivision thereof, which has not been obtained by any Credit Party, is required to be obtained by such Credit Party in connection with the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents, the borrowings under this Agreement, the payment and performance by the Credit Parties of the Obligations or the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents.
5.4. . The April 28, 2007 consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries heretofore delivered to the Agent and the Lenders, were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect on the date such statements were prepared and fairly present the consolidated financial condition and operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, at such date and the consolidated results of their operations for the period then ended.
Financial Statements
5.5. . Since April 28, 2007, there has been no change in the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operations, performance or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Change
5.6. . The Borrower and the Subsidiaries have filed all United States federal tax returns and all other tax returns which are required to be filed and have paid all taxes due pursuant to said returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower or any Subsidiaries, except in respect of such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles and as to which no Lien exists (except as permitted by Section 6.15.1) and as to which the failure to file such return or pay such taxes could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The United States income tax returns of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries have been audited by the Internal Revenue Service through the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005. No liens have been filed and no claims are being asserted with respect to such taxes. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in respect of any taxes or other governmental charges are adequate.
Taxes
5.7. . There is no litigation, arbitration, governmental investigation, proceeding or inquiry pending or, to the knowledge of any of their officers, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which seeks to prevent, enjoin or delay the making of any Loans. Other than any liability incident to any litigation, arbitration or
Litigation and Contingent Obligations
 
proceeding which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have no material contingent obligations required to be reflected on the Borrower's consolidated balance sheet in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and not provided for or disclosed in the financial statements referred to in Section 5.4.
5.8. . Schedule 5.8 contains an accurate list of all Subsidiaries of the Borrower as of the Closing Date, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of organization and the percentage of their respective capital stock or other ownership interests owned by the Borrower or other Subsidiaries. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of such Subsidiaries have been (to the extent such concepts are relevant with respect to such ownership interests) duly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Subsidiaries
5.9. . The Unfunded Liabilities of all Single Employer Plans do not in the aggregate exceed $10,000,000. Neither the Borrower nor any other member of the Controlled Group has incurred, or is reasonably expected to incur, pursuant to Section 4201 of ERISA, any withdrawal liability to Multiemployer Plans. Each Plan complies in all material respects with all applicable requirements of law and regulations. No Reportable Event has occurred with respect to any Plan. Neither the Borrower nor any other member of the Controlled Group has withdrawn from any Multiemployer Plan within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA or initiated steps to do so, and, to the knowledge of the Borrower, no steps have been taken to reorganize or terminate, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, any Multiemployer Plan.
ERISA
5.10. . The information, exhibits or reports furnished by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Agent or to any Lender in connection with the negotiation of, or compliance with, the Loan Documents do not contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state a material fact or any fact necessary to make the statements contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The projected and pro-forma financial information furnished by or on behalf of any Credit Party to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of, or compliance with, the Loan Documents, were prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
Accuracy of Information
5.11. . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental or ultimate of buying or carrying margin stock (as defined in Regulation U), and after applying the proceeds of the Loans, margin stock (as defined in Regulation U) constitutes less than 25% of the value of those assets of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries which are subject to any limitation on sale, pledge, or any other restriction hereunder.
Regulation U
5.12. . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or other corporate restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in (i) any agreement or instrument to which it is a party, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing Indebtedness.
Material Agreements
 
5.13. . The Borrower and the Subsidiaries have complied in all material respects with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations, orders and restrictions of any domestic or foreign government or any instrumentality or agency thereof having jurisdiction over the conduct of their respective businesses or the ownership of their respective Property except for any failure to comply with any of the foregoing which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance With Laws
5.14. . The Borrower and the Subsidiaries have good title, free of all Liens other than those permitted by Section 6.15, to all of the assets reflected in the Borrower's most recent consolidated financial statements provided to the Agent, as owned by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries except (i) assets sold or otherwise transferred as permitted under Section 6.12 and (ii) to the extent the failure to hold such title could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Ownership of Properties
5.15. . None of the Credit Parties is an entity deemed to hold "plan assets" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.  2510.3-101 of an employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is subject to Title I of ERISA or any plan (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code), and assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties made in Section 9.12 and in any assignment made pursuant to Section 12.3.3, neither the execution of this Agreement nor the making of Loans hereunder gives rise to a prohibited transaction within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.
Plan Assets; Prohibited Transactions
5.16. . In the ordinary course of its business, the officers of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries consider the effect of Environmental Laws on the business of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, in the course of which they identify and evaluate potential risks and liabilities accruing to the Borrower or any Subsidiary due to Environmental Laws. On the basis of this consideration, the Borrower has concluded that Environmental Laws cannot reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary has received any notice to the effect that its operations are not in material compliance with any of the requirements of applicable Environmental Laws or are the subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a release of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, which non-compliance or remedial action could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Matters
5.17. . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act
5.18. .
[RESERVED]
5.19. . The Borrower maintains, and has caused each Subsidiary to maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all their Property in such amounts, subject to such deductibles and self-insurance retentions and covering such properties and properties and risks as is consistent with sound business practice.
Insurance
 
5.20. . After giving effect to (i) the Loans to be made on the Closing Date, (ii) the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and (iii) the payment and accrual of all transaction costs with respect to the foregoing, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole are Solvent.
Solvency
5.21. . No Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.
No Default or Unmatured Default
5.22. . The Borrower does not intend to treat the Loans and related transactions as being a "reportable transaction" (within the meaning of the Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4). In the event the Borrower determines to take any action inconsistent with such intention, it will promptly notify the Agent thereof. The Borrower acknowledges that one or more of the Lenders may treat its Loan(s) as part of a transaction that is subject to Treasury Regulation Section 1.6011-4 or Section 301.6112-1, and the Agent and such Lender or Lenders, as applicable, may file such IRS forms or maintain such lists and other records as they may determine is required by such Treasury Regulations.
Reportable Transaction
5.23. . The present value of the expected cost of post-retirement medical and insurance benefits payable by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to its employees and former employees, as estimated by the Borrower in accordance with procedures and assumptions deemed reasonable by the Required Lenders is zero.
Post-Retirement Benefits
During the term of this Agreement, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
6.1. . The Borrower will maintain, for itself and each Subsidiary, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and furnish to the Lenders:
Financial Reporting
6.1.1 Within 90 days after the close of each of the Borrower's fiscal years, commencing with the fiscal year ending April 26, 2008, financial statements prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles on a consolidated basis, for itself and its Subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of the end of such period, statements of income and statements of cash flows, accompanied by (a) an audit report, unqualified as to scope, of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants or other independent public accountants reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders; (b) any management letter prepared by said accountants, and (c) a certificate of said accountants that, in the course of their examination necessary for their certification of the foregoing, they have obtained no knowledge of any Default or Unmatured Default, or if, in the opinion of such accountants, any Default or Unmatured Default shall exist, stating the nature and status thereof.
 
6.1.2 Within 45 days after the close of the first three quarterly periods of each of the Borrower's fiscal years, commencing with the fiscal quarter ending January 26, 2008, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, consolidated unaudited balance sheets as at the close of each such period and consolidated statements of income and a statement of cash flows for the period from the beginning of such fiscal year to the end of such quarter, all certified as to fairness of presentation, compliance with Agreement Accounting Principles and consistency by its chief financial officer or treasurer.
6.1.3 Together with the financial statements required under Sections 6.1.1 and 6.1.2, a compliance certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit B signed by its chief financial officer or treasurer showing the calculations necessary to determine compliance with this Agreement, which certificate shall also state that no Default or Unmatured Default exists, or if any Default or Unmatured Default exists, stating the nature and status thereof, and a certificate executed and delivered by the chief executive officer or chief financial officer stating that the Borrower and each of its respective principal officers are in compliance with all requirements of Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and all rules and regulations related thereto.
6.1.4 Within 120 days after the close of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the plan and forecast (including a projected balance sheet, income statements and funds flow statements, and any narrative prepared with respect thereto) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the upcoming fiscal year prepared in such detail as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Agent.
6.1.5 Within 270 days after the close of each fiscal year of the Borrower, if applicable, a copy of the actuarial report showing the Unfunded Liabilities of each Single Employer Plan as of the valuation date occurring in such fiscal year, certified by an actuary enrolled under ERISA.
6.1.6 As soon as possible and in any event within 10 days after the Borrower knows that any Reportable Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, a statement, signed by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower, describing said Reportable Event and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
6.1.7 As soon as possible and in any event within 10 days after receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, a copy of (a) any notice or claim to the effect that the Borrower or any Subsidiary is or may be liable to any Person as a result of the release by the Borrower, any Subsidiary, or any other Person of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, and (b) any notice alleging any violation of any Environmental Law by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, which, in either case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.1.8 Promptly upon the furnishing thereof to the shareholders of the Borrower, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so furnished.
6.1.9 Promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements and annual, quarterly, monthly or other regular reports which the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the SEC, including, without limitation, all certifications and other filings required by Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and all rules and regulations related thereto.
6.1.10 Prior to the execution thereof, draft copies of all material amendments to the 2003 Note Purchase Agreement, the 2003 Senior Notes, the 2008 Note Purchase Agreement, the 2008 Senior Notes and any notes, indenture or other agreements evidencing Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Section 6.14.12.
6.1.11 Such other information (including non-financial information) as the Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
6.2. . The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans to repurchase shares of stock of the Borrower and for general corporate purposes including, without limitation, for working capital and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and any such use shall not result in a violation of any such requirements, including, without limitation, Regulation U and X, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Use of Proceeds
6.3. . Within five (5) Business Days after an Authorized Officer of the Borrower becomes aware thereof, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, give notice in writing to the Lenders of the occurrence of (i) any Default or Unmatured Default, (ii) the occurrence of any Off-Balance Sheet Trigger Event or any material default under or with respect to any Material Indebtedness or any material service agreement to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party (together with copies of all default notices, if any, pertaining thereto) and (iii) any other development, financial or otherwise, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Notice of Default
 
6.4. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, carry on and conduct its business in substantially the same manner and in substantially the same fields of enterprise as conducted by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date, and do all things necessary to remain duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and (to the extent such concept applies to such entity) in good standing as a domestic corporation, partnership or limited liability company in its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, as the case may be, as in effect on the Closing Date, and, except to the extent failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, maintain all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted.
Conduct of Business
6.5. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, timely file complete and correct United States federal and applicable foreign, state and local tax returns required by law and pay when due all taxes, assessments and governmental charges and levies upon it or its income, profits or Property, except (i) those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves have been set aside in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles and (ii) those taxes, assessments, charges and levies which by reason of the amount involved or the remedies available to the applicable taxing authority could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
6.6. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all their Property in such amounts, subject to such deductibles and self-insurance retentions, and covering such properties and risks as is consistent with sound business practice, and the Borrower will furnish to any Lender upon request full information as to the insurance carried.
Insurance
6.7. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees or awards to which it may be subject including, without limitation, all Environmental Laws and Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
6.8. . Subject to Section 6.12, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do all things necessary to maintain, preserve, protect and keep its Property used in the operation of its business in good repair, working order and condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted), and make all necessary and proper repairs, renewals and replacements so that its business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties
6.9. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit the Agent and the Lenders, by their respective representatives and agents, to inspect any of the Property, books and financial records of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, to examine and make copies of the books of accounts and other financial records of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries with, and to be advised as to the same by, their respective officers at such reasonable times and intervals as the Agent or any Lender may
Inspection; Keeping of Books and Records
 
designate. The Borrower shall keep and maintain, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep and maintain, in all material respects, complete, accurate and proper books of record and account in which entries in conformity with Agreement Accounting Principles shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to their respective businesses and activities. If a Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower, upon the Agent's request, shall turn over copies of any such records to the Agent or its representatives.
6.10. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on its capital stock (other than dividends payable in its own capital stock) or redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire or retire any of its capital stock at any time outstanding, except that (i) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may declare and pay dividends or make distributions to the Borrower or to a Guarantor and (ii) the Borrower may declare and pay dividends on its capital stock, and may repurchase shares of its capital stock provided that (x) no Default or Unmatured Default shall exist before or after giving effect to such dividends (or be created as a result thereof) and (y) the Borrower shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in Sections 6.20 and 6.21 for the four fiscal quarter period reflected in the compliance certificate most recently delivered to the Agent pursuant to Section 6.1.3 prior to the payment of such dividend or such repurchase (after giving effect to the issuance of any Indebtedness in connection therewith and such dividend or repurchase as if made on the first day of such period).
Dividends
6.11. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, merge or consolidate with or into any other Person, except that:
Merger
6.11.1 A Guarantor may merge into (i) the Borrower, provided the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving corporation, or (ii) another Guarantor or any other Person that becomes a Guarantor promptly upon the completion of the applicable merger or consolidation.
6.11.2 A Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor and not required to be a Guarantor may merge or consolidate with or into the Borrower or any Wholly-Owned Subsidiary.
6.11.3 Any Subsidiary of the Borrower may consummate any merger or consolidation in connection with any Permitted Acquisition.
6.12. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its Property to any other Person, except:
Sale of Assets
6.12.1 Sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business.
6.12.2 A disposition of assets (i) by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Credit Party, (ii) by a Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party and not required to be a Guarantor to any other Subsidiary and (iii) subject to Section 6.24, by any Credit Party to any Foreign Subsidiary.
 
6.12.3 A disposition of obsolete property or property no longer used in the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
6.12.4 So long as no Default or Unmatured Default has occurred, a disposition of assets for an aggregate purchase price of up to $700,000,000 outstanding at any time pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Receivables Purchase Facilities.
6.12.5 The license or sublicense of software, trademarks, and other intellectual property in the ordinary course of business which does not materially interfere with the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
6.12.6 Consignment arrangements (as consignor or consignee) or similar arrangements for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and consistent with the past practices of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries.
6.12.7 So long as no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, leases, sales or other dispositions of its Property that (i) are for consideration consisting at least seventy-five percent (75%) of cash, (ii) are for not less than fair market value, and (iii) together with all other Property of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries previously leased, sold or disposed of (other than dispositions otherwise permitted by this Section 6.12) as permitted by this Section 6.12.7 during the twelve-month period ending with the month in which any such lease, sale or other disposition occurs, do not constitute in the aggregate a Substantial Portion of the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
6.13. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make or suffer to exist any Investments (including without limitation, loans and advances to, and other Investments in, Subsidiaries), or to create any Subsidiary or to become or remain a partner in any partnership or joint venture, or to make any Acquisition of any Person, except:
Investments and Acquisitions
6.13.1 Subject to Section 6.24, cash and Cash Equivalent Investments and other Investments that comply with the Borrower's investment policy as in effect on the Closing Date, a copy of which the Borrower has provided to the Agent.
6.13.2 Existing Investments in Subsidiaries and other Investments in existence on the Closing Date and described in Schedule 6.13 and any renewal or extension of any such Investments that does not increase the amount of the Investment being renewed or extended as determined as of such date of renewal or extension.
 
6.13.3 Investments in trade receivables or received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of suppliers and customers and in settlement of delinquent obligations of, and other disputes with, customers and suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business.
6.13.4 Investments consisting of intercompany loans permitted under Section 6.14.6.
6.13.5 All Acquisitions meeting the following requirements or otherwise approved by the Required Lenders (each such Acquisition constituting a "Permitted Acquisition"):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.13.6 Investments constituting promissory notes and other non-cash consideration received in connection with any transfer of assets permitted under Section 6.12.7.
6.13.7 Customer advances in the ordinary course of business.
6.13.8 Extensions of customer or trade credit in the ordinary course of business consistent with the Borrower's and the Subsidiaries' past practices.
6.13.9 Investments constituting Rate Management Transactions permitted under Section 6.17.
6.13.10 Subject to Section 6.24, the creation or formation of new Subsidiaries (as opposed to the Acquisition of new Subsidiaries), so long as all applicable requirements under Section 6.23 shall have been, or concurrently therewith are, satisfied.
 
6.13.11 Investments constituting expenditures for any purchase or other acquisition of any asset which would be classified as a fixed or capital asset on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles to the extent otherwise permitted under this Agreement.
6.13.12 Investments by (i) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any Credit Party, (ii) any Subsidiary which is not a Credit Party and is not required to be a Guarantor in any other Subsidiary which is not a Credit Party and is not required to be a Guarantor and (iii) subject to Section 6.24, any Credit Party in any Foreign Subsidiary.
6.13.13 Deposits made in the ordinary course of business and referred to in Sections 6.15.4, 6.15.6 and 6.15.7.
6.13.14 (a) cash Investments constituting the initial capitalization of an SPV in connection with the consummation of any Receivables Purchase Facility permitted under this Agreement in an aggregate amount (calculated based on aggregate of the initial cash capitalization amount of each such SPV) not to exceed $10,000,000, and (b) other Investments in connection with any Receivables Purchase Facility permitted under this Agreement (including intercompany Indebtedness permitted under Section 6.14.4(b)).
6.13.15 Additional Investments in an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 at any one time outstanding.
6.14. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
6.14.1 The Obligations.
6.14.2 Indebtedness existing on the Closing Date and described in Schedule 6.14, and any replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension of any such Indebtedness that (i) does not exceed the aggregate principal amount (plus accrued interest and any applicable premium and associated fees and expenses) of the Indebtedness being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended, (ii) does not have a Weighted Average Life to Maturity at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension that is less than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of the Indebtedness being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended and (iii) does not rank at the time of such replacement, renewal, refinancing or extension senior to the Indebtedness being replaced, renewed, refinanced or extended.
 
6.14.3 Indebtedness arising under Rate Management Transactions permitted under Section 6.17;
6.14.4 (a) Amounts owing under the Receivables Purchase Facilities, the principal amount of which shall not exceed $600,000,000 in the aggregate at any time and (b) subordinated intercompany Indebtedness owing to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower by any SPV in connection with a Receivables Purchase Facility permitted hereunder.
6.14.5 Secured or unsecured purchase money Indebtedness (including Capitalized Leases) incurred by the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the Closing Date to finance the acquisition of assets used in its business, if (1) at the time of such incurrence, no Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from such incurrence, (2) such Indebtedness does not exceed the lower of the fair market value or the cost of the applicable fixed assets on the date acquired, (3) such Indebtedness does not exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate outstanding at any time, and (4) any Lien securing such Indebtedness is permitted under Section 6.15 (such Indebtedness being referred to herein as "Permitted Purchase Money Indebtedness").
6.14.6 Indebtedness arising from intercompany loans and advances made by (i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Credit Party, (ii) any Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party to any other Subsidiary that is not a Credit Party or (iii) subject to Section 6.24, any Credit Party to any Foreign Subsidiary; provided that all such Indebtedness shall be expressly subordinated to the Obligations.
6.14.7 Indebtedness incurred or assumed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with a Permitted Acquisition but not created in contemplation of such event.
6.14.8 Indebtedness constituting Contingent Obligations otherwise permitted by Section 6.19.
6.14.9 Indebtedness under (i) performance bonds and surety bonds and (ii) bank overdrafts outstanding for not more than two (2) Business Days, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business.
6.14.10 To the extent the same constitutes Indebtedness, obligations in respect of earn-out arrangements permitted pursuant to a Permitted Acquisition.
6.14.11 Unsecured Indebtedness arising under (i) the 2003 Note Purchase Agreement and the 2003 Senior Notes (and any
 
guarantees in respect thereof), the outstanding principal amount of which shall not exceed $180,000,000 in the aggregate at any time (ii) the 2008 Note Purchase Agreement and the 2008 Senior Notes (and any guarantees in respect thereof), and, in the case of this clause (ii), (x) no Default or Unmatured Default shall be continuing as of the date of issuance thereof and the Borrower shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in Sections 6.20 and 6.21 for the four quarter fiscal period reflected in the compliance certificate most recently delivered (prior to the issuance and use of proceeds of such Indebtedness) to the Agent pursuant to Section 6.1.3 after giving effect to the issuance of such Indebtedness (and the use of proceeds thereof) as if made on the first day of such period, and (y) such Indebtedness shall have a maturity date no earlier than the later of (A) the Maturity Date and (B) the maturity date under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement, shall not provide for any mandatory principal prepayments or amortization prior to the later of (A) the Maturity Date and (B) the maturity date under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement, and, if secured, the holders of such Indebtedness shall have entered into an intercreditor agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Agent.
6.14.12 Additional unsecured Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount in Dollars not to exceed $350,000,000; provided that (x) no Default or Unmatured Default shall be continuing as of the date of issuance thereof and the Borrower shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in Sections 6.20 and 6.21 for the four quarter fiscal period reflected in the compliance certificate most recently delivered (prior to the issuance and use of proceeds of such Indebtedness) to the Agent pursuant to Section 6.1.3 after giving effect to the issuance of such Indebtedness (and the use of proceeds thereof) as if made on the first day of such period, and (y) such Indebtedness shall have a maturity date no earlier than the later of (A) the Maturity Date and (B) the maturity date under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement and shall not provide for any mandatory principal prepayments or amortization prior to the later of (A) the Maturity Date and (B) the maturity date under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement.
6.14.13 Unsecured Indebtedness arising under the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement.
6.15. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, or suffer to exist any Lien in, of or on the Property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except:
Liens
6.15.1 Liens, if any, securing Obligations.
 
6.15.2 Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies on its Property if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles shall have been set aside on its books.
6.15.3 Liens imposed by law, such as landlords', wage earners', carriers', warehousemen's and mechanics' liens and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business which secure payment of obligations not more than 45 days past due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles shall have been set aside on its books.
6.15.4 Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation.
6.15.5 Liens existing on the Closing Date and described in Schedule 6.15.
6.15.6 Deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements.
6.15.7 Deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business.
6.15.8 Easements, reservations, rights-of-way, restrictions, survey exceptions and other similar encumbrances as to real property of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries which customarily exist on properties of corporations engaged in similar activities and similarly situated and which are not material in amount and that do not materially interfere with the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary conducted at the property subject thereto.
6.15.9 Liens arising by reason of any judgment, decree or order of any court or other governmental authority, but only to the extent and for an amount and for a period not resulting in a Default under Section 7.8.
6.15.10 Liens on receivables and related assets (including, without limitation, (i) any interest in the equipment or inventory (including returned or repossessed goods), if any, the sale, financing
 
or lease of which gave rise to the receivables, together with insurance related thereto, (ii) all security interests purporting to secure payment of the receivables, (iii) all guaranties, insurance, letters of credit or other agreements supporting or securing payment of the receivables, (iv) all contracts associated with the receivables, (v) all collection accounts and lockbox accounts into which receivables payments are made, (vi) all records relating to the receivables, and (vii) all proceeds of the foregoing) arising in connection with a Receivables Purchase Facility permitted under Section 6.14.4.
6.15.11 Liens existing on any specific fixed asset of any Subsidiary of the Borrower at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary and not created in contemplation of such event.
6.15.12 Liens on any specific fixed asset securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing or refinancing all or any part of the cost of acquiring or constructing such asset; provided that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within six (6) months after the acquisition or completion or construction thereof.
6.15.13 Liens existing on any specific fixed asset of any Subsidiary of the Borrower at the time such Subsidiary is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower or any Subsidiary and not created in contemplation of such event.
6.15.14 Liens existing on any specific fixed asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary and not created in contemplation thereof; provided that such Liens do not encumber any other property or assets, other than improvements thereon and proceeds thereof.
6.15.15 Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted under Sections 6.15.5, 6.15.11 through 6.15.14; provided that (i) such Indebtedness is not secured by any additional assets, other than improvements thereon and proceeds thereof, and (ii) the amount of such Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not increased.
6.15.16 Liens securing Permitted Purchase Money Indebtedness; provided that such Liens shall not apply to any property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than that purchased with the proceeds of such Permitted Purchase Money Indebtedness, other than improvements thereon and proceeds thereof.
 
6.15.17 Liens in respect of Capitalized Lease Obligations to the extent permitted hereunder and Liens arising under any equipment, furniture or fixtures leases or Property consignments to the Borrower or any Subsidiary otherwise permitted under the Loan Documents.
6.15.18 Licenses, leases or subleases granted to others in the ordinary course of business consistent with the Borrower's and the Subsidiaries' past practices that do not materially interfere with the conduct of the business of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
6.15.19 Statutory and contractual landlords' Liens under leases to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party.
6.15.20 Liens in favor of a banking institution arising as a matter of applicable law encumbering deposits (including the right of set-off) held by such banking institutions incurred in the ordinary course of business and which are within the general parameters customary in the banking industry.
6.15.21 Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of applicable law to secure the payment of customs' duties in connection with the importation of goods.
6.15.22 Any interest or title of a lessor, sublessor, licensee or licensor under any lease or license agreement permitted by this Agreement.
6.15.23 Liens not otherwise permitted under this Section 6.15 to the extent attaching to Properties and assets with an aggregate fair market value not in excess of, and securing liabilities not in excess of, $10,000,000, in the aggregate at any one time outstanding.
6.16. . The Borrower will not enter into, directly or indirectly, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to enter into, directly or indirectly, any transaction (including, without limitation, the purchase or sale of any Property or service) with, or make any payment or transfer to, any Affiliate (other than the Borrower and the Guarantors) except (a) in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to the reasonable requirements of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than the Borrower or such Subsidiary would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction and (b) in connection with any Receivables Purchase Facility permitted under Section 6.14.4.
Affiliates
6.17. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into or remain liable upon any Rate Management Transactions except for those entered into (i) by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business for bona fide hedging purposes and not for speculative purposes and (ii) by any SPV in connection with a Receivables Purchase Facility permitted hereunder.
Financial Contracts
 
6.18. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than any SPV) to, create or otherwise cause to become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction of any kind on the ability of any Subsidiary (other than any SPV) (i) to pay dividends or make any other distribution on its stock, (ii) to pay any Indebtedness or other obligation owed to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iii) to make loans or advances or other Investments in the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or (iv) to sell, transfer or otherwise convey any of its property to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (a) this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, the 2003 Note Purchase Agreement, the 2008 Note Purchase Agreement, the Existing Revolving Credit Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Documents, (b) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing any leasehold interest of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) customary provisions restricting assignment of any licensing agreement or other contract entered into by Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business, (d) restrictions on the transfer of any asset pending the close of the sale of such asset and (e) restrictions on the transfer of any assets subject to a Lien permitted by Section 6.15.
Subsidiary Covenants
6.19. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make or suffer to exist any Contingent Obligation (including, without limitation, any Contingent Obligation with respect to the obligations of a Subsidiary), except Contingent Obligations arising with respect to (i) this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) customary indemnification obligations in favor of purchasers in connection with asset dispositions permitted hereunder, (iii) customary indemnification obligations under such Person's charter and bylaws (or equivalent formation documents), (iv) indemnities in favor of the Persons issuing title insurance policies insuring the title to any property, (v) guarantees of (a) real property leases of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (b) personal property Operating Leases of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in each case entered into in the ordinary course of business by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, (vi) the Receivables Purchase Facility and (vii) other Contingent Obligations constituting guarantees of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries permitted under Section 6.14, provided that to the extent such Indebtedness is subordinated to the Obligations each such Contingent Obligation shall be subordinated to the Obligations on terms reasonably acceptable to the Agent.
Contingent Obligations
6.20. . The Borrower will maintain, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, a Leverage Ratio of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00.
Leverage Ratio
6.21. . The Borrower will not permit the ratio (the "Interest Expense Coverage Ratio"), determined as of the end of each of its fiscal quarters for the then most-recently ended four fiscal quarters of (i) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during such period to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense during such period, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Interest Expense Coverage Ratio
6.22. .
[RESERVED]
 
6.23. . The Borrower shall execute or shall cause to be executed on the date any Person becomes a Material Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than an SPV), the Guaranty (or a supplement to the Guaranty) pursuant to which such Material Domestic Subsidiary shall become a Guarantor, and shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Agent all appropriate corporate resolutions and other documentation (including opinions of counsel) in each case in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent. If at any time (a) the aggregate assets of all of the Borrower's Domestic Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors under the Guaranty exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, or (b) the aggregate Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended of all of the Borrower's Domestic Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors under the Guaranty exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the Borrower's Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, the Borrower will, within 30 days after its senior management becomes aware (or reasonably should have become aware) of such event, cause to be executed and delivered to the Agent a supplement to the Guaranty (together with such other documents, opinions and information as the Agent may require) with respect to additional Domestic Subsidiaries to the extent necessary so that, after giving effect thereto, the threshold levels in clauses (a) and (b) above are not exceeded.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
6.24. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any other Credit Party to, enter into or suffer to exist Foreign Subsidiary Investments at any time in an aggregate amount greater than $50,000,000.
Foreign Subsidiary Investments
6.25. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make any amendment or modification to the indenture, note or other agreement evidencing or governing any Subordinated Indebtedness, or directly or indirectly voluntarily prepay, defease or in substance defease, purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire, any Subordinated Indebtedness.
Subordinated Indebtedness
6.26. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell or otherwise dispose of any notes receivable or accounts receivable, with or without recourse except to the extent permitted by Section 6.12.4.
Sale of Accounts
The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute a Default:
7.1 Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Lenders or the Agent under or in connection with this Agreement, any Loans, or any certificate or information delivered in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be false in any material respect on the date as of which made or deemed made.
7.2 Nonpayment of (i) principal of any Loan when due or (ii) interest upon any Loan or other Obligations under any of the Loan Documents within five (5) days after such interest, fee or other Obligation becomes due.
 
7.3 The breach by the Borrower of any of the terms or provisions of any of Sections 6.1 through 6.3 or any of Sections 6.10 through 6.26.
7.4 The breach by the Borrower (other than a breach which constitutes a Default under another Section of this Article VII) or any other Credit Party of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document to which it is a party which is not remedied within five (5) days after the earlier to occur of (i) written notice from the Agent or any Lender to the Borrower or (ii) an Authorized Officer of the Borrower otherwise become aware of any such breach.
7.5 Failure of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to pay when due any Material Indebtedness (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any); or the default by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the performance (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any) of any term, provision or condition contained in any Material Indebtedness Agreement, or any other event shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default, event or condition is to cause, or to permit the holder(s) of such Material Indebtedness or the lender(s) under any Material Indebtedness Agreement to cause, such Material Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity or any commitment to lend under any Material Indebtedness Agreement to be terminated prior to its stated expiration date; or any Material Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall be declared to be due and payable or required to be prepaid or repurchased (other than by a regularly scheduled payment) prior to the stated maturity thereof; or the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall not pay, or admit in writing its inability to pay, its debts generally as they become due.
7.6 The Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) have an order for relief entered with respect to it under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect, (ii) make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, (iii) apply for, seek, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a receiver, custodian, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official for it or any Substantial Portion of its Property, (iv) institute any proceeding seeking an order for relief under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking dissolution, winding up, liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors or fail to file an answer or other pleading denying the material allegations of any such proceeding filed against it, (v) take any corporate or partnership action to authorize or effect any of the foregoing actions set forth in this Section 7.6 or (vi) fail to contest in good faith any appointment or proceeding described in Section 7.7.
7.7 Without the application, approval or consent of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, a receiver, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official shall be appointed for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any Substantial Portion of its Property, or a proceeding described in Section 7.6(iv) shall be instituted against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such appointment continues undischarged or such proceeding continues undismissed or unstayed for a period of 30 consecutive days.
7.8 Any court, government or governmental agency shall condemn, seize or otherwise appropriate, or take custody or control of, all or any portion of the Property of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries which, when taken together with all other Property of the Borrower and the
 
Subsidiaries so condemned, seized, appropriated, or taken custody or control of, during the twelve-month period ending with the month in which any such action occurs, constitutes a Substantial Portion.
7.9 The Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail within 30 days to pay, bond or otherwise discharge one or more (i) judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $5,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in currencies other than Dollars) in the aggregate, or (ii) nonmonetary judgments or orders which, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, which judgment(s), in any such case, is/are not (a) stayed on appeal or otherwise being appropriately contested in good faith or (b) paid in full by third-party insurers under the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's insurance policies.
7.10 The Unfunded Liabilities of all Single Employer Plans shall exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate, or any Reportable Event shall occur in connection with any Plan.
7.11 Nonpayment by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any Rate Management Obligation, in an outstanding principal amount of $5,000,000 or more, when due or the breach by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any term, provision or condition contained in any Rate Management Transaction or any transaction of the type described in the definition of "Rate Management Transactions," whether or not any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender is a party thereto.
7.12 Any Change in Control shall occur.
7.13 The Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred, pursuant to Section 4201 of ERISA, withdrawal liability to such Multiemployer Plan in an amount which, when aggregated with all other amounts required to be paid to Multiemployer Plans by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group as withdrawal liability (determined as of the date of such notification), exceeds $10,000,000 or requires payments exceeding $10,000,000 per annum.
7.14 The Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or is being terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, if as a result of such reorganization or termination the aggregate annual contributions of the Borrower and the other members of the Controlled Group (taken as a whole) to all Multiemployer Plans which are then in reorganization or being terminated have been or will be increased, in the aggregate, over the amounts contributed to such Multiemployer Plans for the respective plan years of such Multiemployer Plans immediately preceding the plan year in which the reorganization or termination occurs by an amount exceeding $10,000,000.
7.15 The Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) be the subject of any proceeding or investigation pertaining to the release by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any other Person of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, or (ii) violate any Environmental Law, which, in the case of an event described in clause (i) or clause (ii), has resulted in liability to the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an amount equal to $10,000,000 or more, which liability is not paid, bonded or otherwise discharged within 60 days or which is not stayed on appeal and being appropriately contested in good faith.
 
7.16 Any Loan Document shall fail to remain in full force or effect against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any action shall be taken or shall fail to be taken to discontinue or to assert the invalidity or unenforceability of, or which results in the discontinuation or invalidity or unenforceability of, any Loan Document.
7.17 An event (such event, an "Off-Balance Sheet Trigger Event") shall occur which (i) permits the investors or purchasers in respect of Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities of the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower to require the amortization or liquidation of such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities as a result of the non-payment of any Off-Balance Sheet Liability having an aggregate outstanding principal amount (or similar outstanding liability) greater than or equal to $5,000,000 and (x) such Off-Balance Sheet Trigger Event shall not be remedied or waived within the later to occur of the tenth day after the occurrence thereof or the expiry date of any grace period related thereto under the agreement evidencing such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, or (y) such investors shall require the amortization or liquidation of such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities as a result of such Off-Balance Sheet Trigger Event, (ii) results in the termination of reinvestments of collections or proceeds of receivables and related assets under the agreements evidencing such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, or (iii) causes or otherwise permits the replacement or substitution of the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof as the servicer under the agreements evidencing such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities; provided, however, that this Section 7.17 shall not apply on any date with respect to (a) any voluntary request by the Borrower or an Affiliate thereof for an above-described amortization, liquidation, or termination of reinvestments so long as the aforementioned investors or purchasers cannot independently require on such date such amortization, liquidation or termination of reinvestments or (b) any scheduled amortization or liquidation at the stated maturity of the facility evidencing such Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities.
8.1. . (i) If any Default described in Section 7.6 or 7.7 occurs with respect to any Credit Party, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall automatically terminate and the Obligations shall immediately become due and payable without any election or action on the part of the Agent or any Lender. If any other Default occurs, the Required Lenders (or the Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders) may terminate or suspend the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, or declare the Obligations to be due and payable, or both, whereupon the Obligations shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which the Borrower hereby expressly waives.
Acceleration
 
 
8.2. . Subject to the provisions of this Section 8.2, the Required Lenders (or the Agent with the consent in writing of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower may enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding or modifying any provisions to the Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or the Borrower hereunder or thereunder or waiving any Default hereunder or thereunder; provided, however, that no such supplemental agreement shall:
Amendments
8.2.1 Without the consent of each Lender adversely affected thereby, extend the Maturity Date, extend the final maturity of any Loan to a date after the Maturity Date or postpone any regularly scheduled payment of principal of any Loan or forgive all or any portion of the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest or fees thereon (other than a waiver of the application of the default rate of interest pursuant to Section 2.8 hereof, which shall only require the approval of the Required Lenders).
8.2.2 Without the consent of each Lender, reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders or any other percentage of Lenders specified to be the applicable percentage in this Agreement to act on specified matters or amend the definition of "Pro Rata Share".
8.2.3 [RESERVED.]
8.2.4 Without the consent of each Lender, amend this Section 8.2.
8.2.5 Without the consent of each Lender, permit the Borrower to assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement.
8.2.6 Without the consent of each Lender, other than in connection with a transaction permitted under this Agreement, release (i) the Borrower from its obligations under Article XVI or (ii) any Guarantor that remains a Material Domestic Subsidiary from its obligations under the Guaranty.
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement relating to the Agent shall be effective without the written consent of the Agent. The Agent may waive payment of the fee required under Section 12.3.3 without obtaining the consent of any other party to this Agreement.
8.3. . No delay or omission of the Lenders or the Agent to exercise any right under the Loan Documents shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of any Default or an acquiescence therein, and the making of a Loan notwithstanding the existence of a Default or Unmatured Default or the inability of the Borrower to satisfy the conditions precedent to such Loan shall not constitute any waiver or acquiescence. Any single or partial exercise of any such right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, and no waiver, amendment or other variation of the terms, conditions
Preservation of Rights
 
or provisions of the Loan Documents whatsoever shall be valid unless in writing signed by, or by the Agent with the consent of, the requisite number of Lenders required pursuant to Section 8.2, and then only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth. All remedies contained in the Loan Documents or by law afforded shall be cumulative and all shall be available to the Agent and the Lenders until all of the Obligations have been paid in full.
9.1. . All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement shall survive the making of the Loans herein contemplated.
Survival of Representations
9.2. . Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no Lender shall be obligated to extend credit to the Borrower in violation of any limitation or prohibition provided by any applicable statute or regulation.
Governmental Regulation
9.3. . Section headings in the Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
Headings
9.4. . The Loan Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding among the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders relating to the subject matter thereof other than those contained in the fee letter described in Section 10.13 which shall survive and remain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
9.5. . The respective obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint and no Lender shall be the partner or agent of any other (except to the extent to which the Agent is authorized to act as such). The failure of any Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender from any of its obligations hereunder. This Agreement shall not be construed so as to confer any right or benefit upon any Person other than the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns, , that the parties hereto expressly agree that the Arranger shall enjoy the benefits of the provisions of Sections 9.6, 9.10 and 10.11 to the extent specifically set forth therein and shall have the right to enforce such provisions on its own behalf and in its own name to the same extent as if it were a party to this Agreement.
Several Obligations; Benefits of this Agreement
provided, however
9.6. .
Expenses; Indemnification
 
 
 
9.7. . All statements, notices, closing documents, and requests hereunder shall be furnished to the Agent with sufficient counterparts so that the Agent may furnish one to each of the Lenders, to the extent that the Agent deems necessary.
Numbers of Documents
9.8. . Except as provided to the contrary herein, all accounting terms used in the calculation of any financial covenant or test shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations hereunder in the calculation of any financial covenant or test shall be made in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles. If any changes in generally accepted accounting principles are hereafter required or permitted and are adopted by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the agreement of its independent certified public accountants and such changes result in a change in the method of calculation of any of the financial covenants, tests, restrictions or standards herein or in the related definitions or terms used therein ("Accounting Changes"), the parties hereto agree, at the Borrower's request, to enter into negotiations, in good faith, in order to amend such provisions in a credit neutral manner so as to reflect equitably such changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' financial condition shall be the same after such changes as if such changes had not
Accounting
 
been made; , until such provisions are amended in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and the Required Lenders, no Accounting Change shall be given effect in such calculations. In the event such amendment is entered into, all references in this Agreement to Agreement Accounting Principles shall mean generally accepted accounting principles, including the Accounting Change, as of the date of such amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all financial statements to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.1 shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect at such time.
provided, however
9.9. . Any provision in any Loan Document that is held to be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability, or validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction, and to this end the provisions of all Loan Documents are declared to be severable.
Severability of Provisions
9.10. . The relationship between the Borrower on the one hand and the Lenders and the Agent on the other hand shall be solely that of borrower and lender. Neither the Agent (except to the limited extent as provided by Section 12.3.4 relating to maintaining the Register), the Arranger, nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary responsibilities to the Borrower or any other Credit Party. Neither the Agent, the Arranger, nor any Lender undertakes any responsibility to the Borrower or any other Credit Party to review or inform any Credit Party of any matter in connection with any phase of any Credit Party's business or operations. The Borrower agrees that neither the Agent, the Arranger, nor any Lender shall have liability to the Borrower (whether sounding in tort, contract or otherwise) for losses suffered by the Borrower in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to, the transactions contemplated and the relationship established by the Loan Documents, or any act, omission or event occurring in connection therewith, unless it is determined in a final non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction that such losses resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the party from which recovery is sought. Neither the Agent, the Arranger, nor any Lender shall have any liability with respect to, and the Borrower hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue for, any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages suffered by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to the Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Nonliability of Lenders
9.11. . Each Lender agrees to hold any confidential information which it may receive from the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement in confidence in accordance with its respective customary practices (but in any event in accordance with reasonable confidentiality practices), except for disclosure (i) to its Affiliates and to other Lenders and their respective Affiliates, for use solely in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) to legal counsel, accountants, and other professional advisors to such Lender or to a Transferee who are expected to be involved in the evaluation of such information in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, in each case which have been informed as to the confidential nature of such information, (iii) to regulatory officials having jurisdiction over it, (iv) to any Person as required by law, regulation, or legal process, (v) of information that presently or hereafter becomes available to such Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Borrower and other than as a result of disclosure not otherwise permitted by this Section 9.11, (vi) to any Person in connection with any legal proceeding to which such Lender is a party, (vii)
Confidentiality
 
to such Lender's direct or indirect contractual counterparties in credit derivative transactions or to legal counsel, accountants and other professional advisors to such counterparties, in each case which have been informed as to the confidential nature of such information, (viii) permitted by Section 12.4 and (ix) to rating agencies if requested or required by such agencies in connection with a rating relating to the Loans hereunder. Without limiting Section 9.4, the Borrower agrees that the terms of this Section 9.11 shall set forth the entire agreement between the Borrower and each Lender (including the Agent) with respect to any confidential information previously or hereafter received by such Lender in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and this Section 9.11 shall supersede any and all prior confidentiality agreements entered into by such Lender with respect to such confidential information. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, confidential information shall not include, and each party hereto (and each employee, representative or other agent of any party hereto) may disclose to any and all Persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. federal income tax treatment and U.S. federal income tax structure of the transactions contemplated hereby and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are or have been provided to such party relating to such tax treatment or tax structure, and it is hereby confirmed that each party hereto has been authorized to make such disclosures since the commencement of discussions regarding the transactions contemplated hereby.
9.12. . Each Lender and Designated Lender represents and warrants that none of the consideration used by such Lender or Designated Lender to make its Loan constitutes for any purpose of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code assets of any "plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code and the rights and interests of such Lender or Designated Lender in and under the Loan Documents shall not constitute such "plan assets" under ERISA.
Lenders Not Utilizing Plan Assets
9.13. . Each Lender hereby represents that it is not relying on or looking to any margin stock (as defined in Regulation U) as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for herein.
Nonreliance
9.14. . The Borrower and each Lender hereby acknowledge and agree that each Lender and/or its Affiliates from time to time may hold investments in, make other loans to or have other relationships with the Borrower and its Affiliates.
Disclosure
9.15. . The Borrower agrees that the Agent may, but shall have no obligation to (i) at any time, pay or discharge taxes, liens, security interests or other encumbrances levied or placed on or threatened against any collateral for the Obligations and (ii) after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default make any other payment or perform any act required of the Borrower or any Subsidiary under any Loan Document or take any other action which the Agent in its discretion deems necessary or desirable to protect or preserve the collateral, if any, for the Obligations, including, without limitation, any action to (x) effect any repairs or obtain any insurance called for by the terms of any of the Loan Documents and to pay all or any part of the premiums therefor and the costs thereof and (y) pay any rents payable by the Borrower or any Subsidiary which are more than 30 days past due, or as to which the landlord has given notice of termination, under any lease. The Agent shall use its best efforts to give the Borrower notice of any action taken under this Section 9.15 prior to the taking of such action or promptly thereafter provided the failure to give such notice shall not affect the
Performance of Obligations
 
Borrower's obligations in respect thereof. The Borrower agrees to pay the Agent, upon demand, the principal amount of all funds advanced by the Agent under this Section 9.15, together with interest thereon at the rate from time to time applicable to Floating Rate Loans from the date of such advance until the outstanding principal balance thereof is paid in full. If the Borrower fails to make payment in respect of any such advance under this Section 9.15 within one (1) Business Day after the date the Borrower receives written demand therefor from the Agent, the Agent shall promptly notify each Lender and each Lender agrees that it shall thereupon make available to the Agent, in Dollars in immediately available funds, the amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such advance. If such funds are not made available to the Agent by such Lender within one (1) Business Day after the Agent's demand therefor, the Agent will be entitled to recover any such amount from such Lender together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate for each day during the period commencing on the date of such demand and ending on the date such amount is received. The failure of any Lender to make available to the Agent its Pro Rata Share of any such unreimbursed advance under this Section 9.15 shall neither relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make available to the Agent such other Lender's Pro Rata Share of such advance on the date such payment is to be made nor increase the obligation of any other Lender to make such payment to the Agent. All outstanding principal of, and interest on, advances made under this Section 9.15 shall constitute Obligations until paid in full by the Borrower.
9.16. .
Relations Among Lenders
9.16.1 . Except with respect to the exercise of setoff rights of any Lender in accordance with Section 11.1, the proceeds of which are applied in accordance with this Agreement, each Lender agrees that it will not take any action, nor institute any actions or proceedings, against the Borrower or any other obligor hereunder or with respect to any Loan Document, without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders or, as may be provided in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, with the consent of the Agent.
No Action Without Consent
9.16.2 . The Lenders are not partners or co-venturers, and no Lender shall be liable for the acts or omissions of, or (except as otherwise set forth herein in case of the Agent) authorized to act for, any other Lender. The Agent shall have the exclusive right on behalf of the Lenders to enforce the payment of the principal of and interest on any Loan after the date such principal or interest has become due and payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Not Partners; No Liability
9.17. . The following notification is provided to the Borrower pursuant to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, 31 U.S.C. Section 5318:
USA Patriot Act Notification
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW ACCOUNT. To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record
 
information that identifies each person or entity that opens an account, including any deposit account, treasury management account, loan, other extension of credit, or other financial services product. What this means for the Borrower: When the Borrower opens an account, the Agent and the Lenders will ask for the Borrower's name, tax identification number, business address, and other information that will allow the Agent and the Lenders to identify the Borrower. The Agent and the Lenders may also ask to see the Borrower's legal organizational documents or other identifying documents.
10.1. . JPMorgan is hereby appointed by each of the Lenders as its contractual representative (herein referred to as the "Agent") hereunder and under each other Loan Document, and each of the Lenders irrevocably authorizes the Agent to act as the contractual representative of such Lender with the rights and duties expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. The Agent agrees to act as such contractual representative upon the express conditions contained in this Article X. Notwithstanding the use of the defined term "Agent," it is expressly understood and agreed that the Agent shall not have any fiduciary responsibilities to any of the Holders of Obligations (including, without limitation, the Lenders) by reason of this Agreement or any other Loan Document and that the Agent is merely acting as the contractual representative of the Lenders with only those duties as are expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. In its capacity as the Lenders' contractual representative, the Agent (i) does not hereby assume any fiduciary duties to any of the Holders of Obligations, (ii) is a "representative" of the Holders of Obligations within the meaning of the term "secured party" as defined in the Illinois Uniform Commercial Code and (iii) is acting as an independent contractor, the rights and duties of which are limited to those expressly set forth in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Each of the Lenders, for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates as Holders of Obligations, hereby agrees to assert no claim against the Agent on any agency theory or any other theory of liability for breach of fiduciary duty, all of which claims each Holder of Obligations hereby waives.
Appointment; Nature of Relationship
10.2. . The Agent shall have and may exercise such powers under the Loan Documents as are specifically delegated to the Agent by the terms of each thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Agent shall have no implied duties or fiduciary duties to the Lenders, or any obligation to the Lenders to take any action thereunder except any action specifically provided by the Loan Documents to be taken by the Agent.
Powers
10.3. . Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable to the Borrower, any Subsidiary, any Lender or any Holder of Obligations for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or under any other Loan Document or in connection herewith or therewith except to the extent such action or inaction is determined in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Person.
General Immunity
10.4. . Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain,
No Responsibility for Loans, Recitals, etc
 
inquire into, or verify (a) any statement, warranty or representation made in connection with any Loan Document or any borrowing hereunder; (b) the performance or observance of any of the covenants or agreements of any obligor under any Loan Document, including, without limitation, any agreement by an obligor to furnish information directly to each Lender; (c) the satisfaction of any condition specified in Article IV, except receipt of items required to be delivered solely to the Agent; (d) the existence or possible existence of any Default or Unmatured Default; (e) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness, sufficiency or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other instrument or writing furnished in connection therewith; (f) the value sufficiency, creation, perfection or priority of any Lien in any collateral security; or (g) the financial condition of the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any guarantor of any of the Obligations or of any of the Borrower's, such Subsidiary's or any such guarantor's respective Subsidiaries. The Agent shall have no duty to disclose, and shall have no liability for the failure to disclose, to the Lenders information that is not required to be furnished by the Borrower to the Agent at such time, but is voluntarily furnished by the Borrower to the Agent (either in its capacity as Agent or in its individual capacity) or any of its Affiliates.
10.5. . The Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder and under any other Loan Document in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Lenders (or all of the Lenders in the event that and to the extent that this Agreement expressly requires such approval), and such instructions and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Lenders. The Lenders hereby acknowledge that the Agent shall be under no duty to take any discretionary action permitted to be taken by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document unless it shall be requested in writing to do so by the Required Lenders (or all of the Lenders in the event that and to the extent that this Agreement expressly requires such approval). The Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and under any other Loan Document unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders pro rata against any and all liability, cost and expense that it may incur by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.
Action on Instructions of Lenders
10.6. . The Agent may execute any of its duties as Agent hereunder and under any other Loan Document by or through employees, agents, and attorneys-in-fact and shall not be answerable to the Lenders, except as to money or securities received by it or its authorized agents, for the default or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care. The Agent shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning the contractual arrangement between the Agent and the Lenders and all matters pertaining to the Agent's duties hereunder and under any other Loan Document.
Employment of Agents and Counsel
10.7. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon any Note, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, facsimile, telex, electronic mail message, statement, paper or document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper person or persons, and, in respect to legal matters, upon the opinion of counsel selected by the Agent, which counsel may be employees of the Agent. For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 4.1, each Lender that has signed this Agreement (or otherwise become party hereto pursuant to an Assignment Agreement) shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the applicable date specifying its objection thereto.
Reliance on Documents; Counsel
 
10.8. . The Lenders agree to reimburse and indemnify the Agent ratably in proportion to the Lenders' Pro Rata Shares of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure (i) for any amounts not reimbursed by the Borrower for which the Agent is entitled to reimbursement by any Credit Party under the Loan Documents, (ii) for any other expenses incurred by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders, in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration and enforcement of the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, for any expenses incurred by the Agent in connection with any dispute between the Agent and any Lender or between two or more of the Lenders) and (iii) for any liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind and nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of the Loan Documents or any other document delivered in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby (including, without limitation, for any such amounts incurred by or asserted against the Agent in connection with any dispute between the Agent and any Lender or between two or more of the Lenders), or the enforcement of any of the terms of the Loan Documents or of any such other documents, provided that (i) no Lender shall be liable for any of the foregoing to the extent any of the foregoing is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Agent and (ii) any indemnification required pursuant to Section 3.5(vii) shall, notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 10.8, be paid by the relevant Lender in accordance with the provisions thereof. The obligations of the Lenders under this Section 10.8 shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
Agent's Reimbursement and Indemnification
10.9. . The Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Unmatured Default hereunder unless the Agent has received written notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Agreement describing such Default or Unmatured Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that the Agent receives such a notice, the Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders.
Notice of Default
10.10. . In the event the Agent is a Lender, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder and under any other Loan Document with respect to its Loan as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, at any time when the Agent is a Lender, unless the context otherwise indicates, include the Agent in its individual capacity. The Agent and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of trust, debt, equity or other transaction, in addition to those contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document, with the Borrower or any Subsidiary in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is not restricted hereby from engaging with any other Person. The Agent, in its individual capacity, is not obligated to remain a Lender.
Rights as a Lender
10.11. . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Arranger or any other Lender and based on the financial statements prepared by the Borrower and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement
Lender Credit Decision
 
and the other Loan Documents. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Arranger or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.12. . The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower, such resignation to be effective upon the appointment of a successor Agent or, if no successor Agent has been appointed, forty-five days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its intention to resign. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint, on behalf of the Borrower and the Lenders, a successor Agent. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders within thirty days after the resigning Agent's giving notice of its intention to resign, then the resigning Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Borrower and the Lenders, a successor Agent. Notwithstanding the two immediately preceding sentences: (x) subject to clause (y) of this sentence, the consent of the Borrower shall be required prior to the appointment of a successor Agent unless such successor Agent is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, provided that the consent of the Borrower shall not be required if a Default has occurred and is continuing, and (y) the Agent may at any time without the consent of the Borrower or any Lender, appoint any of its Affiliates which is a commercial bank as a successor Agent hereunder. If the Agent has resigned and no successor Agent has been appointed, the Lenders may perform all the duties of the Agent hereunder and the Borrower shall make all payments in respect of the Obligations to the applicable Lender and for all other purposes shall deal directly with the Lenders. No successor Agent shall be deemed to be appointed hereunder until such successor Agent has accepted the appointment. Any such successor Agent shall be a commercial bank having capital and retained earnings of at least $100,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the resigning Agent. Upon the effectiveness of the resignation of the Agent, the resigning shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the Loan Documents. After the effectiveness of the resignation of an Agent, the provisions of this Article X shall continue in effect for the benefit of such Agent in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as the Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. In the event that there is a successor to the Agent by merger, or the Agent assigns its duties and obligations to an Affiliate pursuant to this Section 10.12, then the term "Prime Rate" as used in this Agreement shall mean the prime rate, base rate or other analogous rate of the new Agent.
Successor Agent
10.13. . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent and the Arranger, for their respective accounts, the fees agreed to by the Borrower, the Agent, and the Arranger pursuant to that certain letter agreement dated February 22, 2008, or as otherwise agreed from time to time.
Agent and Arranger Fees
10.14. . The Borrower and the Lenders agree that the Agent may delegate any of its duties under this Agreement to any of its Affiliates. Any such Affiliate (and such Affiliate's directors, officers, agents and employees) which performs duties in connection with this Agreement shall be entitled to the same benefits of the indemnification, waiver and other protective provisions to which the Agent is entitled under Articles IX and X.
Delegation to Affiliates
 
10.15. . None of the Persons identified on the cover page to this Agreement, the signature pages to this Agreement or otherwise in this Agreement as an "Arranger" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than, if such Person is a Lender, those applicable to all Lenders as such. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Persons identified on the cover page to this Agreement, the signature pages to this Agreement or otherwise in this Agreement as an "Arranger" shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary duty to or fiduciary relationship with any Holder of Obligations. Each of the Holders of Obligations acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on any of the Persons so identified in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
No Duties Imposed on Arranger
11.1. . In addition to, and without limitation of, any rights of the Lenders under applicable law, if the Borrower becomes insolvent, however evidenced, or any other Default occurs and continues, any and all deposits (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) and any other Indebtedness at any time held or owing by any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender to or for the credit or account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary may be offset and applied toward the payment of the Obligations owing to such Lender, whether or not the Obligations, or any part thereof, shall then be due.
Setoff
11.2. . If any Lender, whether by setoff or otherwise, has payment made to it upon its Outstanding Credit Exposure (other than payments received pursuant to Section 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 or 3.5) in a greater proportion than that received by any other Lender, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase a participation in the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure held by the other Lenders so that after such purchase each Lender will hold its Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. If any Lender, whether in connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise, receives collateral or other protection for its Obligations or such amounts which may be subject to setoff, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to take such action necessary such that all Lenders share in the benefits of such collateral ratably in proportion to their respective Pro Rata Shares of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure. In case any such payment is disturbed by legal process, or otherwise, appropriate further adjustments shall be made.
Ratable Payments
12.1. .
Successors and Assigns; Designated Lenders
12.1.1 . The terms and provisions of the Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower shall not have any right to assign its rights or obligations under the
Successors and Assigns
 
Loan Documents without the prior written consent of each Lender, (ii) any assignment by any Lender must be made in compliance with Section 12.3, and (iii) any transfer by Participants must be made in compliance with Section 12.2. Any attempted assignment or transfer by any party not made in compliance with this Section 12.1 shall be null and void, unless such attempted assignment or transfer is treated as a participation in accordance with Section 12.3.2. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that clause (ii) of this Section 12.1 relates only to absolute assignments and this Section 12.1 does not prohibit assignments creating security interests, including, without limitation, (x) any pledge or assignment by any Lender of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to a Federal Reserve Bank, (y) in the case of a Lender which is a Fund, any pledge or assignment of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to its trustee in support of its obligations to its trustee or (z) any pledge or assignment by any Lender of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to direct or indirect contractual counterparties in credit derivative transactions relating to the Loans; , that no such pledge or assignment creating a security interest shall release the transferor Lender from its obligations hereunder unless and until the parties thereto have complied with the provisions of Section 12.3. The Agent may treat the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes hereof unless and until such Person complies with Section 12.3; , that the Agent may in its discretion (but shall not be required to) follow instructions from the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note to direct payments relating to such Loan or Note to another Person. Any assignee of the rights to any Loan or any Note agrees by acceptance of such assignment to be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Loan Documents. Any request, authority or consent of any Person, who at the time of making such request or giving such authority or consent is the owner of the rights to any Loan (whether or not a Note has been issued in evidence thereof), shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent holder or assignee of the rights to such Loan.
provided, however
provided, however
12.1.2 .
Designated Lenders
 
 
 
 
12.2. .
Participations
12.2.1 . Any Lender may at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("Participants") participating interests in any Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Lender, any Note held by such Lender or any other interest of such Lender under the Loan Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, such Lender shall remain the owner of its Outstanding Credit Exposure and the holder of any Note issued to it in evidence thereof for all purposes under the Loan Documents, all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating interests, and the Borrower and the Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under the Loan Documents.
Permitted Participants; Effect
12.2.2 . Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to the Loan in which such Participant has an interest which would require consent of all of the Lenders pursuant to the terms of Section 8.2.
Voting Rights
12.2.3 . The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in Section 11.1 in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under the Loan Documents, provided that each Lender shall retain the right of setoff provided in Section 11.1 with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each Participant. The Lenders agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of setoff provided in Section 11.1, agrees to share with each Lender, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to be shared in accordance with Section 11.2 as if each Participant were a Lender. The Borrower further agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.4 and 3.5 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to Section 12.3, provided that (i) a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.1, 3.2 or 3.5 than the Lender who sold the participating interest to such Participant would have received had it retained such interest for its own account, unless the sale of such interest to such Participant is made with the prior written consent of the Borrower, and (ii) any Participant not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof agrees to comply with the provisions of Section 3.5 to the same extent as if it were a Lender.
Benefit of Certain Provisions
 
12.3. .
Assignments
12.3.1 . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more banks or other entities ("Purchasers") all or any part of its rights and obligations under the Loan Documents. Such assignment shall be evidenced by an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C or in such other form as may be agreed to by the parties thereto (each such agreement, an "Assignment Agreement"). Each such assignment with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund shall, unless otherwise consented to in writing by the Borrower and the Agent, either be in an amount equal to the entire applicable Outstanding Credit Exposure of the assigning Lender or (unless each of the Agent and, prior to the occurrence and continuance of a Default, the Borrower, otherwise consents) be in an aggregate amount not less than $5,000,000. The amount of the assignment shall be based on the Outstanding Credit Exposure subject to the assignment, determined as of the date of such assignment or as of the "Trade Date," if the "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment Agreement.
Permitted Assignments
12.3.2 . The consent of the Borrower shall be required prior to an assignment becoming effective unless the Purchaser is a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund (other than a Lender or Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund that becomes a Lender solely by means of the settlement of a credit derivative), provided that the consent of the Borrower shall not be required if (i) a Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing or (ii) if such assignment is in connection with the physical settlement of any Lender's obligations to direct or indirect contractual counterparties in credit derivative transactions relating to its Loan; provided, that the assignment without the Borrower's consent pursuant to clause (ii) shall not increase the Borrower's liability under Section 3.5. The consent of the Agent shall be required prior to an assignment becoming effective unless the Purchaser is a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund (other than a Lender or Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund that becomes a Lender solely by means of the settlement of a credit derivative). Any consent required under this Section 12.3.2 shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Consents
12.3.3 . Upon (i) delivery to the Agent of an Assignment Agreement, together with any consents required by Sections 12.3.1 and 12.3.2, and (ii) payment of a $3,500 fee to the Agent by the assigning Lender or the Purchaser for processing such
Effect; Effective Date
 
assignment (unless such fee is waived by the Agent or unless such assignment is made to such assigning Lender's Affiliate), such assignment shall become effective on the effective date specified in such assignment. The Assignment Agreement shall contain a representation and warranty by the Purchaser to the effect that none of the funds, money, assets or other consideration used to make the purchase and assumption of the Outstanding Credit Exposure under the applicable Assignment Agreement constitutes "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that the rights, benefits and interests of the Purchaser in and under the Loan Documents will not be "plan assets" under ERISA. On and after the effective date of such assignment, such Purchaser shall for all purposes be a Lender party to this Agreement and any other Loan Document executed by or on behalf of the Lenders and shall have all the rights, benefits and obligations of a Lender under the Loan Documents, to the same extent as if it were an original party thereto, and the transferor Lender shall be released with respect to the Outstanding Credit Exposure assigned to such Purchaser without any further consent or action by the Borrower, the Lenders or the Agent. In the case of an assignment covering all of the assigning Lender's rights, benefits and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a Lender hereunder but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to, those provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents which survive payment of the Obligations and termination of the Loan Documents. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 12.3 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with Section 12.2. Upon the consummation of any assignment to a Purchaser pursuant to this Section 12.3.3, the transferor Lender, the Agent and the Borrower shall, if the transferor Lender or the Purchaser desires that its Loan be evidenced by a Note, make appropriate arrangements so that, upon cancellation and surrender to the Borrower of the Note (if any) held by the transferor Lender, a new Note or, as appropriate, a replacement Note is issued to such transferor Lender, if applicable, and a new Note or, as appropriate, a replacement Note, is issued to such Purchaser, in each case in principal amounts reflecting their respective Outstanding Credit Exposure as adjusted pursuant to such assignment.
12.3.4 . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower (and the Borrower hereby designates the Agent to act in such capacity), shall maintain at one of its offices in Chicago, Illinois a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register (the "Register") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the principal amounts of
Register
 
and interest on the Loan owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time and whether such Lender is an original Lender or assignee of another Lender pursuant to an assignment under this Section 13.3. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
12.4. . The Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Purchaser or any other Person acquiring an interest in the Loan Documents by operation of law (each a "Transferee") and any prospective Transferee any and all information in such Lender's possession concerning the creditworthiness of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries; provided that each Transferee and prospective Transferee agrees to be bound by Section 9.11 of this Agreement.
Dissemination of Information
12.5. . If any interest in any Loan Document is transferred to any Transferee which is not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, the transferor Lender shall cause such Transferee, concurrently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with the provisions of Section 3.5(iv).
Tax Certifications
13.1. .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
13.1.1 . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in Section 13.1.2), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows:
Notices Generally
 
 
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall
 
be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in Section 13.1.2, shall be effective as provided in Section 13.1.2.
13.1.2 . Notices and other communications to the Lenders may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent or as otherwise determined by the Agent, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to Article II if such Lender has notified the Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Agent or the Borrower, may, in its respective discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it or as it otherwise determines, provided that such determination or approval may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), provided that if such notice or other communication is not given during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
13.2. . Any party hereto may change its address or telecopier number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, Etc
14.1. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. Except as provided in Article IV, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Agent and when the Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Effectiveness
 
14.2. . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any assignment and assumption agreement shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, or any other state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
15.1. . THE LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS, INCLUDING SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF BUT GIVING EFFECT TO FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL BANKS.
CHOICE OF LAW
15.2. . THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENTS AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR ANY HOLDER OF OBLIGATIONS TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION. ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING BY THE BORROWER AGAINST THE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR HOLDER OF OBLIGATIONS OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR HOLDER OF OBLIGATIONS INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL BE BROUGHT ONLY IN A COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK.
CONSENT TO JURISDICTION
 
15.3. . THE BORROWER, THE AGENT, EACH LENDER AND EACH HOLDER OF OBLIGATIONS HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
The Applicable Margin shall initially be Level IV Status until the delivery of the Financials for the period ending April 28, 2008.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings, subject to the final paragraph of this Schedule:
"Financials" means the annual or quarterly financial statements of the Borrower delivered pursuant to the Agreement.
"Level I Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00.
"Level II Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status and (ii) the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00.
"Level III Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status or Level II Status and (ii) the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 2.50 to 1.00.
"Level IV Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status or Level III Status and (ii) the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 3.00 to 1.00.
"Level V Status" exists at any date if the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status or Level IV Status.
"Status" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status or Level V Status.
The Applicable Margin shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Borrower's Status as reflected in the then most recent Financials. Adjustments, if any, to the Applicable Margin shall be effective five Business Days after the Agent has received the applicable Financials. If the Borrower fails to deliver the Financials to the Agent at the time required pursuant to the Agreement, then the Applicable Margin shall be the highest Applicable Margin set forth in the foregoing table until five days after such Financials are so delivered.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
EXECUTION VERSION
Patterson Companies, Inc.
1031 Mendota Heights Road
St. Paul, Minnesota 55120
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as agent for JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (the ""), and Patterson Companies, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the ""), on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Seller
Purchaser
Transaction
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between the Seller and the Purchaser as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if the Seller and the Purchaser had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule except for the election of the laws of the State of New York as the governing law but without regard to its choice of law provisions), on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of that Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
Agreement
Section 1.01(a) As used in this Confirmation, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
. Definitions.
"" means, (A) for any Trading Day described in clause (x) of the definition of Trading Day hereunder, the volume-weighted average price at which the Common Stock trades as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Common Stock is then listed (or, if applicable, the Successor Exchange on which the Common Stock has been listed in accordance with Section 7.01(c)), on such Trading Day, excluding (i) trades that do not settle regular way, (ii) opening (regular way) reported trades in the consolidated system on such Trading Day, (iii) trades that occur in the last ten minutes before the scheduled close of trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day and ten minutes before the scheduled close of the primary trading in the market where the trade is effected, and (iv) trades on such Trading Day that do not satisfy the requirements of Rule 10b-18(b)(3), as determined in good faith by the Calculation Agent, or (B) for any Trading Day that is described in clause (y) of the definition of Trading Day hereunder, an amount determined in good faith by the Calculation Agent as 10b-18 VWAP. The Purchaser acknowledges that the Calculation Agent may refer to the Bloomberg Page "PDCO.UQ <Equity> AQR SEC" (or any successor thereto), in its judgment, for such Trading Day to determine the 10b-18 VWAP.
10b-18 VWAP
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
Additional Termination Event
"" has the meaning set forth in the second paragraph of this Confirmation.
Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Affected Party
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Affected Transaction
"" means any "affiliated purchaser" (as such term is defined in Rule 10b-18) of the Purchaser.
Affiliated Purchaser
"" means (i) in the case of a Termination Event (other than following consummation of a Merger Event or Nationalization) or Event of Default (as defined in the Agreement), one share of Common Stock and (ii) in the case of consummation of a Merger Event or Nationalization, a unit consisting of the number or amount of each type of property received by a holder of one share of Common Stock in such Merger Event or Nationalization; that if such Merger Event involves a choice of consideration to be received by holders of the Common Stock, an Alternative Termination Delivery Unit shall be deemed to include the amount of cash received by a holder who had elected to receive the maximum possible amount of cash as consideration for his shares.
Alternative Termination Delivery Unit
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.07.
Bankruptcy Code
"" means any day on which the Exchange is open for trading.
Business Day
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association.
Calculation Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(f).
Cash Distribution
"" means, for any "" set forth in the Pricing Supplement, the amount specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Reference Period.
Cash Distribution Amount
Reference Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(d).
Cash Settlement Amount
"" means the period during which the Seller purchases shares of Common Stock to unwind its hedge position following the Valuation Completion Date, which shall be determined in a commercially reasonable manner and which shall not exceed 30 Trading Days; that the Seller may extend the Cash Settlement Purchase Period as it shall determine in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to be appropriate in light of legal or regulatory considerations.
Cash Settlement Purchase Period
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Common Stock
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex C hereto.
Communications Procedures
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this letter agreement.
Confirmation
"" means the amount specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Contract Fee
"" means the period commencing on and including the Trade Date and ending on and including the date all payments or deliveries of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 3.01 or Section 7.03 have been made.
Contract Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Default Notice Day
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
De-Listing
"" means the amount specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Discount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(f).
Distribution Termination Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Early Termination Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Event of Default
"" means the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Exchange
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the 130th Trading Day following March 24, 2008.
Expiration Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Indemnified Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Indemnifying Party
"" means the percentage specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Initial Delivery Percentage
"" means the number of shares of Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest integer, equal to the product of (i) the Initial Delivery Percentage and (ii) the Purchase Price the Initial Share Price.
Initial Number of Shares
divided by
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.
Initial Settlement Date
"" means $35.60.
Initial Share Price
"" means, for any date, (i) 21,067,413 shares of Common Stock, (ii) the net number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Purchaser to the Seller in respect of this Transaction on or prior to such date, (iii) the net number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Seller to the Purchaser in respect of this Transaction on or prior to such date, subject to appropriate adjustments pursuant to Section 8.02.
Maximum Delivery Shares
minus
plus
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(d).
Merger Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(e).
Nationalization
"" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in The City of New York.
New York Banking Day
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Number of Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02.
Obligations
"" means the Pricing Supplement attached hereto as Annex D.
Pricing Supplement
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Agreement
"" means the private placement value of a share of Common Stock as determined in accordance with Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Private Placement Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Placement Procedures
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex A hereto.
Private Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Confirmation.
Purchaser
"" means, for any corresponding "" specified in the Pricing Supplement, the period specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Cash Distribution Amount.
Reference Period
Cash Distribution Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Registered Shares
"" means the amount specified as such in the Pricing Supplement.
Registered Shares Fee
"" has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Registration Procedures
"" means Regulation M under the Exchange Act.
Regulation M
"" means Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the Exchange Act (or any successor rule thereto).
Rule 10b-18
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Confirmation.
Seller
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03.
Seller Termination Share Purchase Period
"" means (i) if Section 3.01(a)(i) is applicable, the fourth Business Day following the Valuation Completion Date; (ii) if settlement in cash is applicable pursuant to Section 3.01(d), the date of such cash payment determined in accordance with Section 3.01(d)(ii); (iii) if Section 3.01(e) is applicable, the Business Day immediately following the day on which the Seller informs the Purchaser, pursuant to Annex A hereto, of the number of Private Placement Shares required to be delivered; and (iv) if Section 3.01(f) is applicable, each of the dates so advised by the Seller pursuant to Annex B hereto.
Settlement Date
"" means a number of shares of Common Stock, rounded down to the nearest integer and which number may be negative, equal to (i) the Valuation Number (ii) the Initial Number of Shares.
Settlement Number
minus
"" means an amount in cash equal to (i) the absolute value of the Settlement Number (ii) the dollar volume weighted average price per share at which Seller or its designated affiliate executes purchases of shares of Common Stock during the Cash Settlement Purchase Period in respect of its hedge position for the Transaction.
Settlement Purchase Amount
multiplied by
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(b).
Settlement Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
Share De-listing Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(c).
Successor Exchange
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Termination Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of the Agreement.
Termination Event
"" means the value of an Alternative Termination Delivery Unit to the Seller (determined as provided in Annex A hereto).
Termination Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Termination Settlement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Trade Date
"" means (x) any day (i) other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which the Exchange is not open for business, (ii) during which trading of any securities of the Purchaser on any national securities exchange has not been suspended, (iii) during which there has not been, in the Seller's judgment, a material limitation in the trading of Common Stock or any options contract or futures contract related to the Common Stock, and (iv) during which there has been no suspension pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Confirmation, or (y) any day that, notwithstanding the occurrence of events contemplated in clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this definition, the Seller determines to be a Trading Day.
Trading Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Confirmation.
Transaction
"" has the meaning set forth in the Pricing Supplement.
Valuation Completion Date
"" means (i) the Purchase Price (ii) the arithmetic average of 10b-18 VWAP for each of the Trading Days in the Valuation Period the Discount, as determined by the Calculation Agent in its sole judgment.
Valuation Number
divided by
minus
"" means the period of consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the first Trading Day following March 24, 2008 and ending on and including the Valuation Completion Date.
Valuation Period
Section 2.01Subject to the terms and conditions of this Confirmation, the Purchaser agrees to purchase from the Seller, and the Seller agrees to sell to the Purchaser, on March 19, 2008 or on such other Business Day as the Purchaser and the Seller shall otherwise agree (the ""), a number of shares (the "") of the Purchaser's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), for a purchase price equal to $250,000,000.00 (the ""). The Number of Shares purchased by the Purchaser hereunder shall be determined in accordance with the terms of this Confirmation.
. Purchase of the Stock.
Trade Date
Number of Shares
Common Stock
Purchase Price
Section 2.02On the first Business Day immediately following the Trade Date (such day, the ""), the Seller shall deliver the Initial Number of Shares to the Purchaser, upon payment by the Purchaser of (i) an amount equal to the Purchase Price to the Seller and (ii) the Contract Fee to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.; that if the Seller is unable to borrow or otherwise acquire a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Initial Number of Shares for delivery to the Purchaser on the Initial Settlement Date, the Initial Number of Shares shall be reduced to such number of shares of Common Stock as the Seller is able to borrow or otherwise acquire and any amounts payable by the Purchaser pursuant to this Article 2 shall be reduced correspondingly. Such delivery and payment shall be effected in accordance with the Seller's customary procedures, which shall be commercially reasonable.
. Delivery and Payments.
Initial Settlement Date
provided
Section 2.03The Seller's obligation to deliver the Initial Number of Shares to the Purchaser on the Initial Settlement Date is subject to the condition that the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser in the Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and the Initial Settlement Date.
. Conditions to Seller's Obligations.
Section 3.01(a) (i) If the Settlement Number is greater than zero, the Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number on the Settlement Date in accordance with the Seller's customary procedures; and
. Subsequent Payments or Share Deliveries.
 
(ii) if the Settlement Number is less than zero, the Purchaser shall make a payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock to the Seller in respect of the absolute value of the Settlement Number, as provided in this Section 3.01.
(b) Subject to Section 3.01(c), payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number by the Purchaser to the Seller shall be in cash or validly issued shares of Common Stock (""), and if in shares of Common Stock, then in shares to be sold in a private placement ("") or registered shares (""), as the Purchaser shall elect, which binding election shall be made by written notice to the Seller no later than the close of business on the second Business Day following the Valuation Completion Date; that by making an election to deliver Settlement Shares pursuant to this Section 3.01(b), the Purchaser shall be deemed to make the representations and warranties in Section 5.01 as if made on the date of the Purchaser's election; and that if the Purchaser fails to make such election by such date, the Purchaser shall be deemed to have elected settlement in cash.
Settlement Shares
Private Placement Shares
Registered Shares
provided
provided further
(c) (i) Any election by the Purchaser to deliver the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Settlement Shares pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 3.01 shall not be valid, and settlement in cash shall apply, if the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser to the Seller in Section 5.01 are not true and correct in all material respects as of the date the Purchaser makes such election.
(ii) Notwithstanding any election by the Purchaser to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Settlement Shares, at any time prior to the time the Seller (or any affiliate of the Seller) has contracted to resell all or any portion of such Settlement Shares, the Purchaser may elect to deliver in lieu of such Settlement Shares an amount in cash equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number with respect to any Settlement Shares not yet contracted to be sold, in which case the provisions of Section 3.01(d) shall apply with respect to such amount; that any such election by the Purchaser pursuant to this clause (ii) shall not be valid and settlement in Settlement Shares shall continue to apply if the Purchaser is in possession of any material nonpublic information regarding the Purchaser or the Common Stock as of the date the Purchaser makes such election.
provided
(iii) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number (A) in Private Placement Shares and fails to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(e) or Annex A hereto or takes any action that would make unavailable either (1) the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act for the sale of any Private Placement Shares by the Purchaser to the Seller or (2) an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act reasonably acceptable to the Seller for resales of Private Placement Shares by the Seller, or (B) in Registered Shares and fails to comply with the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(f) or Annex B hereto; then in the case of either (A) or (B), the Purchaser shall deliver in lieu of any Private Placement Shares or Registered Shares an amount in cash equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number with respect to any Settlement Shares not yet sold, in which case the provisions of Section 3.01(d) shall apply with respect to such amount.
(d) (i) If the Purchaser elects to pay the absolute value of the Settlement Number in cash, if settlement in cash is otherwise applicable in accordance with this Section 3.01, or if the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Private Placement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(e), then the Calculation Agent shall determine an amount in cash (the "") equal to the Settlement Purchase Amount.
Cash Settlement Amount
(ii) If cash settlement is applicable, payment of the Cash Settlement Amount shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available U.S. dollar funds on the first Business Day immediately following the date of notification by the Seller to the Purchaser of the Cash Settlement Amount or such later Business Day as determined by the Seller in its sole discretion.
(e) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Private Placement Shares, then on the Settlement Date, the Purchaser shall deliver to the Seller a number of Settlement Shares equal to (A) the Cash Settlement Amount (B) the Private Placement Price (determined by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the Private Placement Procedures contained in Annex A hereto).
divided by
 
(f) If the Purchaser elects to make payment of the absolute value of the Settlement Number in Registered Shares, then the Purchaser shall deliver to the Seller a number of Settlement Shares equal to (A) the absolute value of the Settlement Number (B) an additional number of Settlement Shares to take into account the Registered Shares Fee on the absolute value of the Settlement Number. Such Settlement Shares shall be delivered in such numbers and on such dates on or following the Valuation Completion Date as are specified by the Seller in accordance with the Registration Procedures contained in Annex B hereto.
plus
Section 3.02If the Purchaser elects to deliver Private Placement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(b) or elects to deliver Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.02(a), the Private Placement Procedures contained in Annex A hereto shall apply, and if the Purchaser elects to deliver Registered Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(b), the Registration Procedures contained in Annex B hereto shall apply.
. Private Placement Procedures and Registration Procedures.
Section 3.03(a) If at any time, as a result of provisions limiting deliveries of shares of Common Stock to the number of Maximum Delivery Shares, the Purchaser fails to deliver to the Seller any shares of Common Stock, the Purchaser shall, to the extent that the Purchaser has at such time authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock not reserved for other purposes, promptly notify the Seller thereof and deliver to the Seller a number of shares of Common Stock not previously delivered as a result of such provisions.
. Continuing Obligation to Deliver Shares.
(b) The Purchaser agrees to use its best efforts to cause the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock to be increased, if necessary, to an amount sufficient to permit the Purchaser to fulfill its obligations under this Section 3.03.
Section 4.01(a) The parties agree and acknowledge that:
. Transactions by the Seller.
(i) During any Cash Settlement Purchase Period and any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period, the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) may purchase shares of Common Stock in connection with this Confirmation. The timing of such purchases by the Seller, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases and the manner in which such purchases are made, including without limitation whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of the Seller; that the Seller shall use good faith efforts to (i) make all purchases of Common Stock in a manner that would comply with the limitations set forth in clauses (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (c) of Rule 10b-18 (but without regard to clause (a)(13)(iv) of Rule 10b-18) as if such rule were applicable to such purchases.
provided
(ii) During the Valuation Period, the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) may effect transactions in shares of Common Stock in connection with this Confirmation. The timing of such transactions by the Seller, the price paid or received per share of Common Stock pursuant to such transactions and the manner in which such transactions are made, including without limitation whether such transactions are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of the Seller.
(iii) The Purchaser shall, at least one day prior to the first day of the Valuation Period, any Cash Settlement Purchase Period and any Seller Termination Share Purchase Period, notify the Seller of the total number of shares of Common Stock purchased in Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks pursuant to the once-a-week block exception set forth in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) by or for the Purchaser or any of its Affiliated Purchasers during each of the four calendar weeks preceding such day and during the calendar week in which such day occurs ("" and "" each being used as defined in Rule 10b-18), which notice shall be substantially in the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto.
Rule 10b-18 purchase
blocks
 
(b) The Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that (i) all transactions effected pursuant to Section 4.01 hereunder shall be made in the Seller's sole judgment and for the Seller's own account and (ii) the Purchaser does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to effect such transactions, including, without limitation, the price paid or received per share of Common Stock pursuant to such transactions whether such transactions are made on any securities exchange or privately. It is the intent of the Seller and the Purchaser that this Transaction comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and that this Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B) and the Seller shall take no action that results in the Transaction not so complying with such requirements.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Confirmation, the Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that, on any day, the Seller shall not be obligated to deliver or receive any shares of Common Stock to or from the Purchaser and the Purchaser shall not be entitled to receive any shares of Common Stock from the Seller on such day, to the extent (but only to the extent) that after such transactions the Seller's ultimate parent entity would directly or indirectly beneficially own (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) at any time on such day in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Any purported receipt or delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be void and have no effect to the extent (but only to the extent) that after any receipt or delivery of such shares of Common Stock the Seller's ultimate parent entity would directly or indirectly so beneficially own in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. If, on any day, any delivery or receipt of shares of Common Stock by the Seller is not effected, in whole or in part, as a result of this provision, the Seller's and Purchaser's respective obligations to make or accept such receipt or delivery shall not be extinguished and such receipt or delivery shall be effected over time as promptly as the Seller determines, in the reasonable determination of the Seller, that after such receipt or delivery its ultimate parent entity would not directly or indirectly beneficially own in excess of 8.0% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
Section 4.02(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.01(a), if, based on the advice of counsel, Seller reasonably determines that on any Trading Day, Seller's trading activity in order to manage its economic hedge in respect of the Transaction would not be advisable in respect of applicable securities laws, then Seller may extend the Expiration Date, modify the Valuation Period or otherwise adjust the terms of the Transaction in its good faith and using its commercially reasonable discretion to ensure Seller's compliance with such laws and to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller. The Seller shall notify the Purchaser of the exercise of the Seller's rights pursuant to this Section 4.02(a) upon such exercise.
. Adjustment of Transaction for Securities Laws.
(b) The Purchaser agrees that, during the Contract Period, neither the Purchaser nor any of its affiliates or agents shall make any distribution (as defined in Regulation M) of Common Stock, or any security for which the Common Stock is a reference security (as defined in Regulation M) or take any other action that would, in the view of the Seller, preclude purchases by the Seller of the Common Stock or cause the Seller to violate any law, rule or regulation with respect to such purchases.
Section 4.03Without the prior written consent of the Seller, the Purchaser shall not, and shall cause its affiliates and affiliated purchasers (each as defined in Rule 10b-18) not to, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, by means of a derivative instrument) purchase, offer to purchase, place any bid or limit order that would effect a purchase of, or commence any tender offer relating to, any shares of Common Stock (or equivalent interest, including a unit of beneficial interest in a trust or limited partnership or a depository share) or any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock during the Contract Period.
. Purchases of Common Stock by the Purchaser.
Section 5.01The Purchaser represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Seller, on the date hereof and on any date pursuant to which the Purchaser makes an election to deliver Settlement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01, to pay cash in lieu of Settlement Shares pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(ii) or to receive or deliver Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.03, that:
. Repeated Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Purchaser.
(a) The reports and other documents filed by the Purchaser with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. The Purchaser is not in possession of any material nonpublic information regarding the Purchaser or the Common Stock.
Disclosure; Compliance with Laws.
 
(b) The Purchaser acknowledges that (i) the Purchaser does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to effect purchases of Common Stock by the Seller (or its agent or affiliate) in connection with this Confirmation and (ii) the Purchaser is entering into the Agreement and this Confirmation in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade compliance with federal securities laws including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act. The Purchaser also acknowledges and agrees that any amendment, modification, waiver or termination of this Confirmation must be effected in accordance with the requirements for the amendment or termination of a "plan" as defined in Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Exchange Act. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any such amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, and no amendment, modification or waiver shall be made at any time at which the Purchaser or any officer or director of the Purchaser is aware of any material nonpublic information regarding the Purchaser or the Common Stock.
Rule 10b5-1.
(c) Any shares of Common Stock or Alternative Termination Delivery Units delivered to the Seller pursuant to this Confirmation, when delivered, shall have been duly authorized and shall be duly and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive or similar rights, and such delivery shall pass title thereto free and clear of any liens or encumbrances.
Nature of Shares Delivered.
(d) The Purchaser is not entering into this Confirmation to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) or to manipulate the price of the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock).
No Manipulation.
(e) The Purchaser is not engaged in a distribution, as such term is used in Regulation M, that would preclude purchases by the Purchaser or the Seller of the Common Stock or cause the Seller to violate any law, rule or regulation with respect to such purchases.
Regulation M.
(f) The Purchaser is entering into this Transaction in connection with its share repurchase program, which was approved by its board of directors and publicly disclosed, solely for the purposes stated in such board resolution and public disclosure. There is no internal policy of the Purchaser, whether written or oral, that would prohibit the Purchaser from entering into any aspect of this Transaction, including, but not limited to, the purchases of shares of Common Stock to be made pursuant hereto.
Board Authorization.
(g) The Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota. This Confirmation has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Purchaser and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Seller) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Purchaser. The Purchaser has all corporate power to enter into this Confirmation and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to purchase the Common Stock and deliver any Settlement Shares in accordance with the terms hereof.
Due Authorization and Good Standing.
(h) There has not been any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Purchaser that would fall within the scope of Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv).
Certain Transactions.
Section 5.02The Purchaser represents and warrants to, and agrees with the Seller, as of the date hereof, that:
. Initial Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Purchaser.
(a) . The assets of the Purchaser at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of the Purchaser, including contingent liabilities; the capital of the Purchaser is adequate to conduct the business of the Purchaser and the Purchaser has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature.
Solvency
 
(b) The Purchaser has made, and will use its best efforts to make, all filings required to be made by it with the SEC, any securities exchange or any other regulatory body with respect to the Transaction contemplated hereby.
Required Filings.
(c) The execution and delivery by the Purchaser of, and the performance by the Purchaser of its obligations under, this Confirmation and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated do not conflict with or violate (i) any provision of the articles of incorporation, by-laws or other constitutive documents of the Purchaser, (ii) any statute or order, rule, regulation or judgment of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Purchaser or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective assets or (iii) any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Purchaser or any of its subsidiaries or any of its assets.
No Conflict.
(d) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by the Purchaser with respect to performance, execution and delivery of this Confirmation have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with.
Consents.
(e) The Purchaser is not and, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated in this Confirmation, will not be required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Investment Company Act.
(f) The Purchaser is an "eligible contract participant", as such term is defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
Commodity Exchange Act.
Section 5.03The Purchaser and the Seller represent and warrant to, and agree with, each other that:
. Additional Representations, Warranties and Agreements.
(a) Each party agrees and acknowledges that (i) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., an affiliate of the Seller (""), has acted solely as agent and not as principal with respect to this Transaction and (ii) JPMSI has no obligation or liability, by way of guaranty, endorsement or otherwise, in any manner in respect of this Transaction (including, if applicable, in respect of the settlement thereof). Each party agrees it will look solely to the other party (or any guarantor in respect thereof) for performance of such other party's obligations under this Transaction. JPMSI is authorized to act as agent for the Seller.
Agency.
JPMSI
(b) Each party has entered into this Transaction solely in reliance on its own judgment. Neither party has any fiduciary obligation to the other party relating to this Transaction. In addition, neither party has held itself out as advising, or has held out any of its employees or agents as having the authority to advise, the other party as to whether or not the other party should enter into this Transaction, any subsequent actions relating to this Transaction or any other matters relating to this Transaction. Neither party shall have any responsibility or liability whatsoever in respect of any advice of this nature given, or views expressed, by it or any such persons to the other party relating to this Transaction, whether or not such advice is given or such views are expressed at the request of the other party. The Purchaser has conducted its own analysis of the legal, accounting, tax and other implications of this Transaction and consulted such advisors, accountants and counsel as it has deemed necessary.
Non-Reliance.
Section 5.04The Seller represents and warrants to the Purchaser that:
. Representations and Warranties of the Seller.
(a) This Confirmation has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Seller and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Purchaser) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the Seller. The Seller has all corporate power to enter into this Confirmation and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to deliver the Common Stock in accordance with the terms hereof.
Due Authorization.
 
(b) The Seller will, at the Initial Settlement Date and on any other day on which it is required to deliver shares of Common Stock to the Purchaser hereunder, have the free and unqualified right to transfer the Number of Shares of Common Stock to be delivered by the Seller pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 3.01 hereof, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, claim, equity or encumbrance of any kind.
Right to Transfer.
(c) The Seller is an "eligible contract participant", as such term is defined in Section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
Commodity Exchange Act.
Section 6.01The Purchaser hereby agrees with the Seller that the Purchaser shall cooperate with the Seller, and execute and deliver, or use its best efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all such other instruments, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of any person, and take all such other actions as the Seller may reasonably request from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Confirmation, in order to effectuate the purposes of this Confirmation and the Transaction contemplated hereby.
. Purchaser's Further Assurances.
Section 6.02The Purchaser hereby agrees with the Seller that the Purchaser shall not, during the Contract Period, enter into or alter any corresponding or hedging transaction or position with respect to the Common Stock (including, without limitation, with respect to any securities convertible or exchangeable into the Common Stock) and agrees not to alter or deviate from the terms of this Confirmation.
. Purchaser's Hedging Transactions.
Section 6.03The Purchaser hereby agrees with the Seller that the Purchaser shall not, directly or indirectly, communicate any information relating to the Common Stock or this Transaction (including any notices required by Section 6.05) to any employee of the Seller or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., other than as set forth in the Communications Procedures attached as Annex C hereto.
. No Communications.
Section 6.04Notwithstanding any other provision of this Confirmation, the Purchaser shall not be required to deliver Settlement Shares, or shares of Common Stock or other securities comprising the aggregate Alternative Termination Delivery Units, in excess of the number of Maximum Delivery Shares, in each case except to the extent that the Purchaser has available at such time authorized but unissued shares of such Common Stock or other securities not expressly reserved for any other uses (including, without limitation, shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options or convertible debt). The Purchaser shall not permit the sum of (i) the number of Maximum Delivery Shares plus (ii) the aggregate number of shares expressly reserved for any such other uses, in each case whether expressed as caps or as numbers of shares reserved or otherwise, to exceed at any time the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock.
. Maximum Deliverable Number of Shares of Common Stock.
Section 6.05If at any time during the Contract Period, the Purchaser makes, or expects to be made, or has made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Purchaser (other than any such transaction in which the consideration consists solely of cash and there is no valuation period, or as to which the completion of such transaction or the completion of the vote by target shareholders has occurred), then the Purchaser shall (i) notify the Seller prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on any day on which the Purchaser makes, or expects to be made, or has made any such public announcement, (ii) notify the Seller promptly following any such announcement (or, if later, prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on the first day of any Seller Termination Share Payment Period) that such announcement has been made and (iii) promptly deliver to the Seller following the making of any such announcement (or, if later, prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on the first day of any Seller Termination Share Payment Period) a certificate indicating (A) the Purchaser's average daily Rule 10b-18 purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months preceding the date of such announcement and (B) the Purchaser's block purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) effected pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 10b-18 during the three full calendar months preceding the date of such announcement. In addition, the Purchaser shall promptly notify the Seller of the earlier to occur of the
. Notice of Certain Transactions.
 
completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. Accordingly, the Purchaser acknowledges that its actions in relation to any such announcement or transaction must comply with the standards set forth in Section 6.03.
Section 6.06The Purchaser shall not declare any dividend with an ex-dividend date scheduled to occur during the Contract Period.
. No Dividends.
Section 7.01(a) An Additional Termination Event shall occur in respect of which the Purchaser is the sole Affected Party and this Transaction is the sole Affected Transaction if, on any day, the Seller determines, in its commercially reasonable judgment, that it is unable to establish, re-establish or maintain any hedging transactions reasonably necessary in the normal course of such party's business of hedging the price and market risk of entering into and performing under this Transaction, due to market illiquidity, illegality or lack of availability of hedging transaction market participants.
. Additional Termination Events.
(b) An Additional Termination Event shall occur in respect of which the Purchaser is the sole Affected Party and this Transaction is the sole Affected Transaction if (i) a Share De-listing Event occurs; (ii) a Merger Event occurs; (iii) a Nationalization occurs, (iv) a Distribution Termination Event occurs or (v) an event described in paragraph III of Annex C occurs.
(c) A "" means that at any time during the Contract Period, the Common Stock ceases to be listed, traded or publicly quoted on the Exchange for any reason (other than a Merger Event, a "") and is not immediately re-listed, traded or quoted as of the date of such de-listing, on another U.S. national securities exchange or a U.S. automated interdealer quotation system (a ""); that it shall not constitute an Additional Termination Event if the Common Stock is immediately re-listed on a Successor Exchange upon its De-Listing from the Exchange, and the Successor Exchange shall be deemed to be the Exchange for all purposes. In addition, in such event, the Seller shall make any commercially reasonable adjustments it deems necessary to the terms of the Transaction.
Share De-listing Event
De-Listing
Successor Exchange
provided
(d) A "" means the public announcement, including any public announcement as defined in Rule 165(f) of the Securities Act (by the Purchaser or otherwise) at any time during the Contract Period of any (i) planned recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock that will, if consummated, result in a transfer of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, (ii) planned consolidation, amalgamation, merger or similar transaction of the Purchaser with or into another entity (other than a consolidation, amalgamation or merger in which the Purchaser will be the continuing entity and which does not result in any such recapitalization, reclassification or change of more than 20% of such shares outstanding), (iii) other takeover offer for the shares of Common Stock that is aimed at resulting in a transfer of more than 20% of such shares of Common Stock (other than such shares owned or controlled by the offeror) or (iv) irrevocable commitment to any of the foregoing.
Merger Event
(e) A "" means that all or substantially all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock or assets of the Purchaser are nationalized, expropriated or are otherwise required to be transferred to any governmental agency, authority or entity.
Nationalization
(f) A "" means a declaration by the Purchaser of any cash dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock (a ""), that has a record date during the Contract Period, the amount of which, together with all prior declared Cash Distributions that have a record date during the same Reference Period of the Purchaser, exceeds the Cash Distribution Amount specified in the Pricing Supplement for such Reference Period.
Distribution Termination Event
Cash Distribution
Section 7.02(a) In the event of the occurrence or effective designation of an Early Termination Date under the Agreement, cash settlement, as set forth in Section 7.02(b), shall apply unless (i) the Purchaser elects (which election shall be binding), in lieu of payment of the
. Consequences of Additional Termination Events.
 
amount payable in respect of this Transaction pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) and 6(e) of the Agreement (the ""), to deliver or to receive Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.03, and (ii) notifies the Seller of such election by delivery of written notice to the Seller on the Business Day immediately following the Purchaser's receipt of a notice (as required by Section 6(d) of the Agreement following the designation of an Early Termination Date in respect of this Transaction) setting forth the amounts payable by the Purchaser or by the Seller with respect to such Early Termination Date (the date of such delivery, the ""); that the Purchaser shall not have the right to elect the delivery or receipt of the Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to Section 7.03 if:
Termination Amount
Default Notice Day
provided
(i) the representations and warranties made by the Purchaser to the Seller in Section 5.01 are not true and correct as of the date the Purchaser makes such election, as if made on such date, or
(ii) in the event that the Termination Amount is payable by the Purchaser to the Seller, (A) the Purchaser has taken any action that would make unavailable (x) the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, for the sale of any Alternative Termination Delivery Units by the Purchaser to the Seller or (y) an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act reasonably acceptable to the Seller for resales of Alternative Termination Delivery Units by the Seller, and (B) such Early Termination Date is in respect of an Event of Default which is within Purchaser's control (including, without limitation, failure to execute a Private Placement Agreement or otherwise comply with the requirements applicable to Purchaser set forth in Annex A hereto).
For the avoidance of doubt, upon the Purchaser's making an election to deliver Alternative Termination Delivery Units pursuant to this Section 7.02(a), the Purchaser shall be deemed to make the representations and warranties in Section 5.01 hereof as if made on the date of the Purchaser's election. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to the time the Seller (or any affiliate of the Seller) has contracted to resell the property to be delivered upon alternative termination settlement, the Purchaser may deliver in lieu of such property an amount in cash equal to the Termination Amount in the manner set forth in Section 6(d) of the Agreement.
(b) If cash settlement applies in respect of an Early Termination Date, Section 6 of the Agreement shall apply.
Section 7.03(a) Subject to Section 7.02(a), if the Termination Amount shall be payable by the Purchaser to the Seller and the Purchaser elects to deliver the Alternative Termination Delivery Units to the Seller, the Purchaser shall, as soon as directed by the Seller after the Default Notice Day (such date, the ""), deliver to the Seller a number of Alternative Termination Delivery Units equal to the quotient of (A) the Termination Amount (B) the Termination Price.
. Alternative Termination Settlement.
Termination Settlement Date
divided by
(b) Subject to Section 7.02(a), if the Termination Amount shall be payable by the Seller to the Purchaser and the Purchaser elects to receive the Alternative Termination Delivery Units from the Seller, (i) the Seller shall, beginning on the first Trading Day following the Default Notice Day and ending when the Seller shall have satisfied its obligations under this clause (the ""), purchase (subject to the provisions of Section 4.01 and Section 4.02 hereof) a number of Alternative Termination Delivery Units equal to the quotient of (A) the Termination Amount (B) the Termination Price; and (ii) the Seller shall deliver such Alternative Termination Delivery Units to the Purchaser on the settlement dates relating to such purchases.
Seller Termination Share Purchase Period
divided by
Section 7.04If an Event of Default occurs in respect of the Purchaser, the Purchaser will, promptly upon becoming aware of it, notify the Seller specifying the nature of such Event of Default.
. Notice of Default.
 
Section 8.01
. Reserved.
Section 8.02If (x) any corporate event occurs involving the Purchaser or the Common Stock (other than any cash dividend but including, without limitation, a spin-off, a stock split, stock or other dividend or distribution, reorganization, rights offering or recapitalization or any other event having a dilutive or concentrative effect on the theoretical value of the Common Stock), or (y) as a result of the definition of Trading Day (whether because of a suspension of transactions pursuant to Section 4.02 or otherwise), any day that would otherwise be a Trading Day during the Contract Period is not a Trading Day or on such Trading Day, pursuant to Section 4.02, the Seller effects transactions with respect to shares of Common Stock at a volume lower than originally anticipated with respect to this Transaction, or (z) as a result of market conditions, the Seller incurs additional costs in connection with maintaining its hedge position with respect to this Transaction resulting from the insufficient availability of stock lenders willing and able to lend shares of Common Stock with a borrow cost not significantly greater than the cost as of the date hereof and otherwise on terms consistent with those as of the date hereof, then in any such case, the Calculation Agent shall make corresponding adjustments with respect to any variable relevant to the terms of the Transaction, as the Calculation Agent determines appropriate to preserve the fair value of the Transaction to the Seller, and shall determine the effective date of such adjustment.
. Other Dilution Adjustments.
Section 9.01All covenants and agreements in this Confirmation made by or on behalf of either of the parties hereto shall bind and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto whether so expressed or not.
. Successors and Assigns.
Section 9.02The Purchaser (the "") agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Seller and its officers, directors, employees, affiliates, advisors, agents and controlling persons (each, an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint or several (collectively, ""), to which an Indemnified Person may become subject arising out of or in connection with this Confirmation or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating thereto, regardless of whether any of such Indemnified Person is a party thereto, and to reimburse, within 30 days, upon written request, each such Indemnified Person for any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating, preparation for, providing evidence for or defending any of the foregoing, provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not have any liability to any Indemnified Person to the extent that such Obligations (i) are finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Person (and in such case, such Indemnified Person shall promptly return to the Indemnifying Party any amounts previously expended by the Indemnifying Party hereunder) or (ii) are trading losses incurred by the Seller as part of its purchases or sales of shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Confirmation (unless the Purchaser has breached any agreement, term or covenant herein).
. Purchaser Indemnification.
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Person
Obligations
Section 9.03Notwithstanding the Agreement, the Seller may assign any of its rights or duties hereunder to any one or more of its affiliates without the prior written consent of the Purchaser. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Seller to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any shares of Common Stock or other securities to or from the Purchaser, Seller may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares of Common Stock or other securities and otherwise to perform the Seller's obligations in respect of this Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. The Seller may assign the right to receive Settlement Shares to any third party who may legally receive Settlement Shares. The Seller shall be discharged of its obligations to the Purchaser only to the extent of any such performance. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller hereby acknowledges that notwithstanding any such designation hereunder, to the extent any of Seller's obligations in respect of this Transaction are not completed by its designee, Seller shall be obligated to continue to perform or to cause any other of its designees to perform in respect of such obligations.
. Assignment and Transfer.
Section 9.04Whenever the Calculation Agent is required to act or to exercise judgment in a any way with respect to this Transaction, it will do so in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner.
. Calculation Agent.
 
Section 9.05The Seller and the Purchaser hereby acknowledge and agree that, subject to Section 6.03, each is authorized to disclose every aspect of this Confirmation and the transactions contemplated hereby to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, and there are no express or implied agreements, arrangements or understandings to the contrary.
. Non-confidentiality.
Section 9.06To the extent permitted by law, the unenforceability or invalidity of any provision or provisions of this Confirmation shall not render any other provision or provisions herein contained unenforceable or invalid.
. Unenforceability and Invalidity.
Section 9.07The parties hereto agree and acknowledge as of the date hereof that (i) the Seller is a "financial institution" within the meaning of Section 101(22) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the "") and (ii) this Confirmation is a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, entitled to the protection of Sections 362(b)(6) and 555 of the Bankruptcy Code.
. Securities Contract.
Bankruptcy Code
Section 9.08Notwithstanding any provision of the Agreement, or any other agreement between the parties, to the contrary, the obligations of the Purchaser hereunder are not secured by any collateral. Obligations under this Transaction shall not be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against any other obligations of the parties, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and no other obligations of the parties shall be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against obligations under this Transaction, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and each party hereby waives any such right of setoff, netting or recoupment.
. No Collateral, Netting or Setoff.
Section 9.09Unless otherwise specified herein, any notice, the delivery of which is expressly provided for in this Confirmation, may be made by telephone, to be confirmed in writing to the address below. Changes to the information below must be made in writing.
. Notices.
 
Patterson Companies, Inc.
1031 Mendota Heights Road
St. Paul, Minnesota 55120
Attention: R. Stephen Armstrong
Title: Executive Vice President and CFO
Telephone No: 651-686-1769
Facsimile No: 651-686-8984
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
277 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10172
Attention: Mariusz Kwasnik
Title: Operations Analyst
EDG Corporate Marketing
Telephone No: (212) 622-6707
Facsimile No: (212) 622-8534
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today announced that it has closed on $525 million of long-term debt financing and the repurchase of approximately 6.3 million shares of its common stock from J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. under an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement.
March 24, 2008St. Paul, MN
Patterson issued $450 million of fixed-rate private notes with maturities of five, seven and ten years. The company also secured a five-year, $75 million term loan at a floating rate of interest through a group of banks. Patterson used $250 million of the debt financing to repurchase shares under the ASR. The remaining proceeds from the debt issuances will be used to repay borrowings under the company's revolving credit agreement and for general corporate purposes. At closing, the weighted average interest rate of the debt was 5.1%.
As a result of the ASR transaction and open-market purchases made since late November 2007, Patterson has now repurchased approximately 18 million shares under its previously announced 25 million share repurchase authorization.
James W. Wiltz, president and chief executive officer, commented: "Through this capital restructuring, we leveraged the strength of our balance sheet to create what we believe will be long-term value for our shareholders."
The final number of shares to be delivered by J.P. Morgan under the ASR will depend on prevailing market conditions and is based on the difference between the initial purchase price per share and a volume weighted average price of the company's common stock, minus a set discount, during a period of up to six months. Under terms of the ASR, the company may receive additional shares of common stock from J.P. Morgan or may be required to deliver shares or cash to J.P. Morgan.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply
industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007.
 


