FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20101123095533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 23, 2010, Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 ended October 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $857,414,000 for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 ended October 30, an increase of 5% from $814,951,000 in the year-earlier quarter. Internal growth generated one-half of the sales increase, with acquisitions and currency exchange accounting for the balance. Net income of $53,357,000 or $0.45 per diluted share rose 8% from $49,343,000 or $0.41 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
St. Paul, MNNovember 23, 2010
Sales of Patterson Dental Supply, Patterson's largest business, totaled $563,210,000 in the second quarter, up 5% from $537,167,000 in the year-earlier period.
 
 
 
Second quarter sales of the Webster Veterinary unit rose slightly from the year-earlier period to $161,578,000. Sales of Patterson Medical, the rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, rose 13% to $132,626,000, reflecting the positive impact of the June 2010 acquisition of the healthcare businesses of DCC Healthcare.
Scott P. Anderson, president and chief executive officer, commented: "We are encouraged by Patterson's solid second quarter results, which were attained amid the context of sluggish economic conditions that continued to affect our served markets. Within Patterson Dental, the strong sales of dental equipment that we reported for this period reflect the effectiveness of our initiatives aimed at emphasizing the productivity benefits of new-technology equipment. Given this effort, our second quarter CEREC growth was generated in part by a more than 50% increase in new unit sales compared to the prior year. CEREC sales also benefited from a strong finish to the trade-up program that began earlier this year. For the full year, we continue to believe that CEREC sales should increase by at least 10%. In addition, sales of digital sensors and cone beam and panoramic imaging systems also were robust during this period, another indication of the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts."
He continued: "The rehabilitation businesses that we acquired in the first quarter from DCC Healthcare have significantly strengthened and expanded Patterson Medical's international footprint, and our integration process is proceeding on schedule. The unit's second quarter results were affected by weakness in its sales to U.K. customers due to budgetary constraints being imposed by the British government on its National Health Service. Despite this situation, we believe Patterson Medical is increasingly well positioned as an ongoing growth driver. We were pleased with Webster's second quarter performance, although the year-over-year comparability of Webster's sales was affected by previously reported changes in the distribution arrangements for certain pharmaceuticals. We estimate that this changeover had the effect of reducing Webster's second quarter sales growth by approximately four to five percentage points."
Anderson added: "As we begin the second half of our year, Patterson's performance is on plan and we are reiterating our previously-issued financial guidance of $1.89 to $1.99 per diluted share for fiscal 2011."
Late in the second quarter, Patterson became aware that its customer financing agreement with a commercial paper conduit did not meet the stringent technical requirements of the revised
accounting standards under ASC 860, which would have allowed the Company to remove the finance contracts from its balance sheet when sold. These provisions became effective at the beginning of the fiscal year. Patterson's second quarter balance sheet reflects all outstanding finance contracts sold during the current fiscal year as receivables and a liability was recorded for the cash received from the sales. Patterson was unable to recognize gains from the sales of these assets. This situation also is reflected in Patterson's second quarter operating cash flow. Upon becoming aware of its noncompliance issue, Patterson immediately began the process of amending its financing agreement and expects to have this matter remedied shortly. Once accomplished, Patterson will be able to remove the contracts and related liability from its balance sheet.
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets,
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is the nation's second largest distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unexpected loss of key senior management personnel; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For additional information contact:
Patterson's second quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the second quarter conference call can be heard for one week at 1-303-590-3030 and providing the conference ID: 4384954.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


