FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20121213112032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) announced the resignation of Brian S. Tyler from its board of directors effective December 10, 2012. Tyler, executive vice president-corporate strategy and business development for McKesson Corporation, determined that due to the scale and scope of his new responsibilities at McKesson he should resign from Patterson's board.
St. Paul, MNDecember 11, 2012
Patterson intends to seek a replacement for the vacated board position.
Peter L. Frechette, Patterson's chairman, commented: "We will miss Brian's counsel and perspective. During his tenure on our board, he has made significant contributions to Patterson's success by providing valuable insight into the development of our overall vision and business strategies. We wish Brian the very best in all of his current and future pursuits."
Tyler said: "My association with Patterson was professionally and personally gratifying, and I am confident of the company's continued success in the future."
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is one of the nation's leading distributors of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
 


