FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20120823090859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 23, 2012 Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 ended July 28, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today reported operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 ended July 28.
St. Paul, MNAugust 23, 2012
 
 
Sales of Patterson Dental, Patterson's largest business, increased 6% from the year-earlier period to $567,392,000 in this year's first quarter.
 
 
Internally generated sales of the Webster Veterinary unit increased more than 10% in the first quarter. A change in a distribution agreement for nutritional products late in last year's fourth quarter reduced Webster's first quarter sales growth by approximately six percentage points, while the August 2011 acquisition of American Veterinary Supply Corporation added 2.5 percentage points of sales growth. Reflecting these factors, Webster's first quarter sales increased nearly 6.5% to $191,090,000. Sales of Patterson Medical, the rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, declined 3% to $130,743,000, due primarily to weakness in its equipment business. The impact of negative foreign exchange rates largely offset the nearly 2% sales contribution from Patterson Medical's April 2012 acquisition of Surgical Synergies Pty Ltd., a distributor of physiotherapy, rehabilitation and mobility products serving the Australian and New Zealand markets.
Scott P. Anderson, president and chief executive officer, commented: "We are generally pleased with Patterson's on-plan first quarter results despite persistently soft economic conditions both in North America and our foreign markets. Within Patterson Dental, sales of consumable supplies were below forecasted levels, and we are intensifying our focus on this key component of our sales mix. However, the exceptionally strong sales growth of CEREC products and low double-digit sales growth of basic equipment more than compensated for the below-plan consumables sales. Our robust CEREC sales were generated in part by strong demand from new users, reflecting the ongoing trend toward the digitization of dentistry. We believe sales will receive an additional boost from the recent introduction by Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. (NYSE: SIRO) of a revolutionary powder-free intraoral camera that will make CEREC significantly easier to use. This camera, which will be available on new CEREC systems, will start selling in the second quarter as production ramps up. In addition, Patterson and Sirona, the undisputed leader in digital dental technology that also manufactures Schick digital sensors, recently expanded our exclusive North American marketing agreement to cover Sirona's complete product line, including digital panoramic and cone beam x-rays. This move further strengthens Patterson Dental's position as the leading distributor of dental technology and other equipment.
"Webster, whose solid first quarter sales growth was generated by robust demand for consumable supplies, is currently implementing a range of strategies aimed at further strengthening its full-service platform," he continued. "The expansion and training of its field sales force are aimed at boosting sales of both consumables and equipment. To further spur its equipment business, Webster plans to achieve full national coverage for technical support by the end of fiscal 2013. In addition, Webster is continuing to strengthen its growing range of technology solutions for veterinarians and their clients. Reflecting these and other initiatives, Webster is strengthening its competitive position to capitalize upon favorable pet ownership and consumer spending trends, and we intend to continue investing in this growing business."
Anderson added: "First quarter sales of Patterson Medical's industry-leading range of consumable supplies were largely consistent with forecasted levels. Despite U.S. healthcare regulatory uncertainties and the weak economic environment both here and abroad, we believe Patterson Medical, as the only single source of supply in the rehabilitation market, is strongly positioned to take maximum advantage of worldwide demographic trends that will have a favorable long-term affect on the rehabilitation market."
Patterson repurchased approximately 1.1 million common shares during the first quarter under its 25 million-share buyback authorization that expires in 2016. Approximately 10 million shares remain available for repurchase under this authorization.
Patterson remains on track toward achieving its previously issued financial guidance of $2.10 to $2.16 per diluted share in fiscal 2013.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is a leading distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced
growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unexpected loss of key senior management personnel; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For additional information contact:
 
Patterson's first quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the first quarter conference call can be heard for one month at 1-303-590-3030 and providing the conference ID: 4559525.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 


