FILE:PDCO/PDCO-8K-20121120090305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On November 20, 2012 Patterson Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 ended October 27, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Patterson Companies, Inc. (Nasdaq: PDCO) today reported consolidated sales of $867,193,000 for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 ended October 27, an increase of 1% from $856,875,000 in the year-earlier period. Net income of $45,542,000 or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $48,954,000 or $0.43 per diluted share in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Net income in this year's second quarter was affected primarily by below-plan sales of dental equipment, as well as the absorption of $3.0 million of incremental interest expense related to Patterson's debt issuance in the third quarter of fiscal 2012
St. Paul, MNNovember 20, 2012
Patterson Dental
Patterson Dental, Patterson's largest business, reported sales of $549,149,000, substantially unchanged from last year's second quarter.
 
 
 
Webster Veterinary
Internally-generated sales of the Webster Veterinary unit increased 13% in the second quarter. A change in a distribution agreement for nutritional products in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 reduced Webster's second quarter reported sales growth by approximately six percentage points. Webster reported sales of $184,375,000 for the quarter.
Patterson Medical
Sales of Patterson Medical, the rehabilitation supply and equipment unit, which totaled $133,669,000, were virtually unchanged from the year-earlier period. Patterson Medical's April 2012 acquisition of Surgical Synergies Pty Ltd., a distributor of physiotherapy, rehabilitation and mobility products serving the Australian and New Zealand markets, contributed approximately one percentage point of sales growth in the second quarter.
Scott P. Anderson, president and chief executive officer, commented: "Several areas of our business, including dental technology equipment and Webster Veterinary, performed well in the second quarter. On balance, however, we are not satisfied with our recent operating results, which did not meet our expectations, and we are committed to strengthening Patterson's long-term performance. While our businesses, like many others, are challenged by current economic conditions, we will continue to make the investments that position Patterson to capitalize upon opportunities in each of our markets."
He continued: "Sales of basic dental equipment, including chairs, units and lighting, were below planned levels. This shortfall was partially offset by continued growth of our industry-leading range of technology equipment, reflecting the ongoing trend toward the digitization of dentistry. We were particularly encouraged by robust demand for the next-generation CEREC Omnicam system, which became available on a limited basis in the second quarter. This important new product is significantly easier to use than prior versions, while further improving clinical outcomes. We expect the production volumes to ramp up during the second half of our fiscal year."
"Webster's solidly higher second quarter sales growth was generated by strong demand for consumable supplies," Anderson said. "To further strengthen its competitive position, Webster is focusing resources on its growing range of technology solutions for veterinarians and their clients, in addition to expanding local technical support capabilities for its equipment business."
He added: "Sales of Patterson Medical were below our internal forecast as moderately higher sales of consumable supplies in the U.S. were offset by continued weakness in the unit's international and equipment business. Despite U.S. healthcare regulatory uncertainties and the weak economic environment in its global markets, we believe Patterson Medical is well-positioned to capitalize upon positive long-term demographic trends in the worldwide rehabilitation market."
Patterson repurchased approximately 1.6 million common shares during the second quarter under its 25 million-share buyback authorization that expires in 2016. Approximately 8 million shares remain available for repurchase under this authorization.
Reflecting the second quarter sales shortfall and outlook for continued economic uncertainty, Patterson reduced its previously-issued fiscal 2013 financial guidance of $2.10 to $2.16 per diluted share to a new range of $2.00 to $2.06.
About Patterson Companies, Inc.
Patterson Companies, Inc. is a value-added distributor serving the dental, companion-pet veterinarian and rehabilitation supply markets.
Dental Market
As Patterson's largest business, Patterson Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America.
Veterinary Market
Webster Veterinary is a leading distributor of consumable veterinary supplies, equipment and software, diagnostic products, vaccines and pharmaceuticals to companion-pet veterinary clinics.
Rehabilitation Market
Patterson Medical is the world's leading distributor of rehabilitation supplies and non-wheelchair assistive patient products to the physical and occupational therapy markets. The unit's global customer base includes hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics and dealers.
This release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are information of a non-historical nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company's ability to control. The Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements: competition within the dental, veterinary, and rehabilitative and assistive living supply industries; changes in the economics of dentistry, including reduced growth in expenditures by private dental insurance plans, the effects of economic conditions and the effects of healthcare reform, which may affect future per capita expenditures for dental services and the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology products; the effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitative and assistive products; changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets; the ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with its sales force; unexpected loss of key senior management personnel; unforeseen operating risks; risks associated with the dependence on manufacturers of the Company's products; and the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the recent acquisitions into its existing business. Forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary language set forth in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Patterson's second quarter earnings conference call will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern today. Investors can listen to a live webcast of the conference call at . The conference call will be archived on Patterson's web site. A replay of the second quarter conference call can be heard for one month at 1-303-590-3030 and providing the conference ID: 4574654.
www.pattersoncompanies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


