FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20030724163251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216, the following information, required to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On July 24, 2003, the Company announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2004, ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported first quarter net income of $155.6 million, an increase of 33%, and earnings per diluted share of 53 cents, an increase of 36%. McKesson's revenues increased 21% in the first quarter, to $16.5 billion, including customer warehouse sales of $5.2 billion, which increased 48%. Excluding warehouse sales, revenues grew 12%.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 24, 2003 
Corporate Performance and Highlights
     Revenue growth and operating profit improvement in the Pharmaceutical Solutions segment drove McKesson's improved results for the quarter. Operating profit increases in the Medical-Surgical Solutions and Information Solutions segments also contributed to the improvement in quarterly results.
     "McKesson achieved strong results in our first quarter," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "All three of our segments delivered operating profit increases resulting from great execution in our businesses and continued success with customers."
 
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions' direct delivery revenues grew faster than the market. We benefited from new U.S. institutional distribution business and continued strong growth in Canada coupled with the impact of a stronger Canadian dollar. Sales to customer warehouses increased 48%, demonstrating the attractiveness and efficiency of our comprehensive approach for pharmaceutical supply chain management on behalf of large retail chain customers."
     "The fundamentals remain positive for Pharmaceutical Solutions for the rest of this year. We see signs of increasing demand for pharmaceuticals and drug price increases continue to be robust. The new drug pipeline continues to look more positive."
     "Medical-Surgical Solutions' financial performance continues to improve. The execution of our plan remains on schedule and we are pleased with our progress."
     "In Information Solutions, we experienced our historical pattern of slower growth in the first quarter. However, sales of clinical software doubled as our customers continue to invest heavily in systems to improve the quality of patient care. We expect to reach our goal of about 10% overall revenue growth for the full year."
     "Our balance sheet remains strong, with a net debt to net capital ratio of 15%. In a quarter when we historically have used operating cash, we generated $43 million of cash flow from operations. This reflects the improvements we are achieving in managing service level inventories. In addition, we repurchased $75 million of common shares during the quarter."
     "I am pleased with our results in the quarter. We are well-positioned for continued growth throughout the remainder of fiscal 2004."
 
First Quarter Segment Operating Performance
Pharmaceutical Solutions Segment
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues grew 13%, to $10.4 billion, excluding warehouse sales. U.S. pharmaceutical distribution and service revenues were up 12%, to $9.4 billion. Warehouse sales of $5.2 billion were up 48%. McKesson Canada revenues increased 27%, to $1.04 billion. The increase in Canadian revenues reflected strong market growth and increased sales to customers. On a constant currency basis, Canadian revenues would have increased 15% in the quarter.
     Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit was up 16% and operating margin excluding warehouse sales rose 5 basis points in the quarter. The first quarter included $7.1 million of incremental product development expense in the Automation business. Factors contributing to the operating profit improvement in this segment included operating leverage and increased sales of higher-margin generics.
 
Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were flat compared to the prior year, and operating profit of $21.7 million was up 19%. During the quarter, $1.4 million of previously expensed restructuring charges were reversed. Medical-Surgical Solutions should begin to benefit from more efficient operations as fiscal 2004 progresses.
Information Solutions Segment
     Information Solutions total revenues increased 4% to $264.9 million. Software revenues were $49.0 million, up 9%. Services revenues were $195.1 million, up 3%. Implementation revenues continued to grow, but were offset by a decline in other service categories. Hardware revenues were $20.8 million, up 9%. Operating profit was $20.7 million and the operating margin was 7.81%.
 
Other Operating Highlights
     Corporate expenses, net of other income, decreased 20% to $32.8 million. Corporate expenses included a pre-tax gain of $8.5 million from the sale of a surplus property. Also included were pre-tax expenses of $5.1 million associated with the re-organization of the company's technology support operations, pending securities litigation and losses on venture investments. McKesson's effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.5%. Compared to a year ago, return on equity was 13.6% versus 11.3%, and return on committed capital was 24.8% versus 20.5%, both of which reflect the improved financial performance of the company.
     Earnings per diluted share were based on 298.1 million average diluted shares in the quarter. The company paid $1.5 million in dividends on convertible preferred securities.
 
     At June 30, 2003, McKesson's cash and marketable securities totaled $456.9 million, total debt was $1.3 billion, stockholders' equity was $4.7 billion and the company's net debt to net capital ratio was 14.7%. For the quarter, the company generated $43 million of cash from operations. During the quarter, McKesson repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock for $75 million and had 290.2 million shares outstanding at June 30, 2003.
     A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today and on replay afterwards. Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website.
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 20 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 170-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
 
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of potential mandated benefits, changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory or distribution policies or practices; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV
 
Schedule V
The Company utilizes return on committed capital as a measure to evaluate its ability to generate income relative to its investment in capital. The Company believes that the most directly comparative GAAP measure is return on stockholders' equity.


