FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20030429162607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216, the following information, required to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On April 29, 2003, the Company announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported fourth quarter income from continuing operations of $181.6 million, an increase of 43%, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of 62 cents, an increase of 44%. McKesson's revenues increased 15% in the fourth quarter, to $14.9 billion, including sales of $3.9 billion to customers' warehouses. Excluding warehouse sales, revenues grew 13%. Net income was $179.0 million, including a net loss from discontinued operations of $2.6 million, or one cent per share. Last year, net income was $125.4 million, including a net loss from discontinued operations of $1.5 million or one cent per share.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 29, 2003 
Full Fiscal Year Results
     For its fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, McKesson had income from continuing operations of $562.1 million, an increase of 33%, and earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.90, an increase of 32%. Including discontinued operations, McKesson reported net income of $555.4 million, an increase of 33%, and earnings per diluted share of $1.88, an increase of 31%. Revenues including warehouse sales were $57.1 billion, up 14% from the prior year.
 
Corporate Performance and Highlights
     Revenue growth and operating margin expansion in the Pharmaceutical Solutions and Information Solutions segments drove McKesson's improved results for the quarter. Operating profit from the Medical-Surgical Solutions segment increased slightly.
     "McKesson capped off an outstanding year with an excellent fourth quarter, providing a solid foundation for the company's continued growth in the coming year," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our fiscal year financial performance included improved operating results across the company and record cash flow from operations. We provided for significant investment in our business and still ended the year with our net debt to net capital ratio at 14%, its lowest level ever."
     "In Pharmaceutical Solutions, we had strong revenue growth in the quarter from institutional customers, and slower growth from retail customers who were impacted by increasing sales of generic drugs. Our Canadian distribution operation continued its strong performance. Relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers remain productive and collaborative, reflecting their recognition of the value we provide to them."
     "We expect pharmaceutical revenue growth of at least 10% in the coming year, in line with the market. Market growth will be driven by the life-saving and life-enhancing benefits of drug therapy, the growing demands of an aging population, new product introductions and continuing generic conversions."
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions operating margin expanded in the quarter and the year, our third consecutive year of substantial gains. In fiscal 2004, we anticipate further operating margin expansion of 5 to 10 basis points, excluding warehouse sales."
 
     "Medical-Surgical Solutions financial performance was stable in the quarter. While we expect that medical-surgical revenues will not grow appreciably in fiscal 2004, our operating improvement plan remains on schedule and operating margin should reach 3% or slightly better by the fourth quarter."
     "In Information Solutions, 15% revenue growth was driven by a 41% increase in software revenues, showing that customers are choosing McKesson for their information technology requirements. We continue to see strong demand, especially for clinical software that improves the quality of care and delivers return on investment for our customers. New contracts strengthen our relationships with customers and provide a foundation for future purchases of McKesson solutions."
     "McKesson Information Solutions revenues should increase about 10% in fiscal 2004, with software revenue growth higher than the growth rate overall. We expect that fiscal 2004 operating margin should be between 11 and 12%, which would represent solid progression toward our long-term objective of an operating margin of 13 to 15%."
     "Our goal for McKesson is to build shareholder value by growing segment revenues at least at market growth rates, gaining operating margin improvements through selling value-added services, realizing infrastructure improvements and cost efficiencies provided by our tremendous scale. This leverage should enable McKesson to continue to grow earnings significantly faster than revenues over the long term."
 
Fourth Quarter Segment Operating Performance
Pharmaceutical Solutions Segment
     U.S. pharmaceutical distribution and service revenues were up 12%, to $9.1 billion. Warehouse sales of $3.9 billion were up 20%. McKesson Canada pharmaceutical distribution revenues increased 28%, to $899.7 million. The Canadian increase included the benefits of an additional selling day in the quarter and a relatively strong Canadian dollar. Without these benefits, Canadian revenues would have increased 18% in the quarter. Combined growth in the U.S. and Canada produced overall Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth of 14%, to $10.0 billion, excluding warehouse sales. Retail chain customers accounted for 38% of U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues, institutional customers 41% and retail independent pharmacies 21%.
     Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit was up 20% and operating margin excluding warehouse sales expanded 15 basis points in the quarter, leading to an increase of 14 basis points for the full year. Factors contributing to the operating margin expansion included increased sales of higher-margin generics, services to manufacturers, and Six Sigma process improvements, offset somewhat by a decline in selling margins. In the fourth quarter a year ago, McKesson had charges of $6.3 million in the segment associated mainly with the closure of various facilities.
 
Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were flat compared to the prior year, and operating profit of $16.9 million was up 3%. In the fourth quarter a year ago, McKesson had charges of $4.2 million in the segment primarily associated with a restructuring of its distribution center network. During the quarter, McKesson completed its distribution center consolidation program by closing one center while the information systems consolidation plan continued on schedule. This business should begin to benefit from more efficient operations as fiscal 2004 progresses.
Information Solutions Segment
     Information Solutions total revenues increased 15% to $313.8 million. Software revenues were $80.6 million, up 41%. Services revenues were $204.2 million, up 10%. Hardware revenues were $29.0 million, down 1%. Both software and services revenues benefited from stronger demand for clinical products and the introduction of the Horizon Medical Imaging product line acquired in July 2002.
 
     Operating profit was $35.9 million and the operating margin was 11.44%. In the fourth quarter a year ago, McKesson had charges of $14.1 million in the segment associated mainly with the closure of certain facilities and a reduction in its workforce.
     One-time software bookings were $95.9 million compared to $59.8 million in the fourth quarter a year ago, an increase of 60%. For the year, one-time software bookings were $229.2 million, an increase of 27%. These increases in software bookings are due to stronger demand for clinical products in McKesson's installed customer base.
Other Operating Highlights
     Corporate expenses, net of other income, increased 5% to $49.6 million. Current-year expenses include higher benefit and insurance costs and lower pension income, offset in part by lower losses on venture investments. McKesson's effective annual tax rate for the quarter and the year was 34%. Return on committed capital was 24.1% compared to 19.8% a year ago, reflecting the improved financial performance of the company.
     Earnings per diluted share were based on 297.8 million average diluted shares in the quarter. The company paid $1.6 million in dividends on convertible preferred securities.
 
     At March 31, 2003, McKesson's cash and marketable securities totaled $533.5 million, total debt was $1.30 billion, stockholders' equity was $4.53 billion and the company's net debt to net capital ratio was 14.0%. For the year, the company generated $695.5 million of cash from operations. McKesson had 291.2 million shares outstanding at March 31, 2003.
     A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today, and on replay afterwards. Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website.
     Founded in 1833, McKesson Corporation is the leading provider of supply, information and care management products and services designed to reduce costs and improve quality across healthcare. McKesson solutions empower healthcare professionals with the tools they need to deliver care more effectively and efficiently. With annual revenues of $57 billion, McKesson ranks as the nation's 20th-largest industrial company.
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks",
 
"approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of potential mandated benefits, changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; changes in manufacturers' pricing, sales or distribution policies; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


