FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20040429160401.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 29, 2004, the Company announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2004, were $17.9 billion, an increase of 21% from $14.9 billion a year ago, including customer warehouse sales of $5.6 billion, which increased 42% from $3.9 billion. Excluding warehouse sales, revenues grew 13%, to $12.4 billion from $11.0 billion a year ago.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 29, 2004 
     Fourth quarter net income was $214.2 million, an increase of 20% from $179.0 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 73 cents, an increase of 20% from 61 cents. Last year's fourth quarter included a loss from discontinued operations of $2.6 million, or one cent per share.
     For the full fiscal year, McKesson had revenues of $69.5 billion, an increase of 22%, including warehouse sales of $21.6 billion, which rose 46%. Net income for the year was $646.5 million, an increase of 16%, and earnings per diluted share was $2.19, an increase of 16%. Last year, McKesson had a loss from discontinued operations of $6.7 million or two cents per share.
 
     "In Fiscal 2004, McKesson once again delivered solid financial performance," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "We achieved revenue growth of 22% and EPS growth of 16%, generated cash flow from operations of $563 million, made share repurchases of $157 million, including $41 million in the fourth quarter, and ended the year with a net debt to capital ratio of just 13%."
     "We closed out the year with another quarter of strong pharmaceutical distribution revenue growth in both the United States and Canada. This growth demonstrates the increasing value that McKesson's solutions deliver to our customers. At the same time, we are making excellent progress in our discussions to improve the economics of our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and we believe have sound strategies to stabilize pricing to customers."
     "In Medical-Surgical Solutions, operating profit and operating margin rate improved steadily throughout the year. Our progress over the past five quarters tracked the plan we outlined in the fall of 2002. We are pleased with the momentum we see in the operating results of this business."
     "In Information Solutions, revenue growth for the year was modest. Software revenues were impacted by slower demand for non-clinical software and longer installation periods needed to implement our complex clinical contracts. Operating profit and the operating margin rate improved for the year, reflecting better product mix, strong expense controls and the impact of changes to settlement and contract reserves."
Significant Items
     During the fourth quarter, McKesson had four significant items:
 
Corporate Highlights
     The past 12 months included the following key accomplishments by the company:
 
Fiscal Year 2005 Outlook
     "McKesson's long-term growth potential remains extremely positive," Hammergren said. "Favorable demographics continue to drive increased demand for pharmaceuticals, while incentives to increase the use of generic drugs create additional opportunities. Pressure continues to mount to increase the use of information and technology to improve healthcare quality, reflected in two major political milestones: the passage of the Medicare Modernization Act and the FDA's mandate for bar-coded medications in all hospitals. And just this week, President Bush proposed to create electronic medical records for all Americans within 10 years, which should accelerate more widespread use of healthcare information technology."
 
     "Earlier this week, we announced a series of organizational changes designed to better align our product development and selling efforts with the evolving needs of the marketplace. As a result, we believe we are well-positioned for long-term growth in each of our segments."
     "However, as we enter fiscal 2005, three issues are impacting our financial performance in the near term. First, the Pharmaceutical Solutions and Provider Technologies segments face challenging financial comparisons in the first half of the year. The evolution of the U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business model continues to impact Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit comparisons in the first half. The results of Provider Technologies are affected by the previously announced contracting change we made in our inpatient automation business, now included in this segment, and by the complexity of clinical solution implementations, both of which delay revenue recognition."
     "Second, we are investing more than $30 million in a series of strategic initiatives, including Patient Safety, our CMS drug card for seniors, our Payor business, ePrescribing and Closed Loop Supply Management. While these investments have significant long-term growth potential, they are incremental expenses that will impact our Fiscal 2005 earnings."
     "Third, like many other companies, we face some unavoidable cost challenges across the business, including higher costs for healthcare, 401-K and other retirement benefits. In addition, we expect $20 million of incremental legal expense as a result of accelerating activity in our shareholder litigation. The company is working aggressively to mitigate the effect of these increased expenses with actions that will control and defer discretionary expenses. However, the impact from the incremental litigation expense and investments alone is expected to be more than ten cents per share."
     "With these impacts, for the full fiscal year, McKesson expects to earn between $2.20 and $2.35 per share. First half earnings per share should be down modestly compared to the strong results of the first half of Fiscal 2004, but stronger growth should resume in the second half."
 
     "Longer term, the health of the business and the soundness of our strategies should enable McKesson revenues to grow in line with our markets while expanding operating margin at a faster rate. We believe that on a combined basis our business should grow revenue at or above 10% per year. Our goal is to achieve earnings per share growth in the mid-teens once we complete the changes underway in our business."
Key Assumptions for Fiscal Year 2005 Outlook
     The Fiscal 2005 outlook is based on the key assumptions provided below. Unless otherwise noted, the outlook excludes significant items and is also subject to the Risk Factors provided below in this press release.
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of recently approved and potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory,
 
distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
New Segment Reporting
     On April 26, 2004, McKesson announced several changes to its segment reporting that will take effect in Fiscal 2005. McKesson will continue to report in three segments: Pharmaceutical Solutions, Medical-Surgical Solutions and Provider Technologies. McKesson Provider Technologies combines the former McKesson Information Solutions segment, the McKesson Inpatient Automation business, which provides automation products for the hospital market; and McKesson Corporate Solutions Group, a unit that coordinates strategic sales of products and services across multiple McKesson business units. The results of Inpatient Automation were previously reported in the Pharmaceutical Solutions segment. Retail Automation will continue to be included in Pharmaceutical Solutions.
 
     The Clinical Auditing and Compliance Division, which sells software to payors for auditing professional claims, will now be reported in the Pharmaceutical Solutions segment which already includes other Payor businesses. Its results were previously reported in McKesson Information Solutions. Zee Medical, which provides first aid and safety products and training services to corporate customers, will now be reported in the Medical-Surgical Solutions segment. Its results were previously reported in the Pharmaceutical Solutions segment.
     Three years of recast segment financial data for the reorganized segments are included in the tables for this press release.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 16 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 170-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV
 
Schedule V
The Company utilizes return on committed capital as a measure to evaluate its ability to generate income relative to its investment in capital. The Company believes that the most directly comparative GAAP measure is return on stockholders' equity.
 
Schedule VI


