FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20041021160508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 21, 2004, McKesson Corporation (the " Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2005, ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the second fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004, were $19.9 billion, an increase of 19% from $16.8 billion in the second quarter a year ago. Net income was $86.1 million, a decrease of 45% from $156.5 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 29 cents, a decrease of 45% from 53 cents. A discussion of results by business segment follows.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 21, 2004 
Pharmaceutical Solutions
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 20% from the second quarter a year ago to $18.9 billion. Operating profit was down 32%, to $150.7 million from $221.7 million the prior year. As announced in a September 7 press release, a decline in volume-weighted price increases for U.S. pharmaceutical products reduced segment operating profit in the quarter. The quarter also included a $10 million LIFO credit.
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth continued to be strong, resulting from the first full quarter of our new agreement with the Department of Veterans Affairs, implementation of the AdvancePCS business acquired by our customer, Caremark, which began in August, and growth in Canada," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
     "I want to reiterate how pleased we are to be serving the VA for its pharmaceutical distribution needs. Over the past four months, we had a smooth implementation of this relationship. We can now affirm that the business is larger and more profitable than we anticipated. We are also pleased to have been awarded additional business by Caremark. As we pass the anniversary dates for the VA and AdvancePCS business in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, our pharmaceutical distribution revenue growth rate is expected to return to market growth adjusted for our mix of business."
     "We continue to make progress in our discussions with pharmaceutical manufacturers regarding the economics of our relationships, a multi-phase process that began in August 2003 following reductions in our product sourcing activities. During the initial phase, we focused on developing a clear mutual understanding of the value of our services and the related compensation that we require for those services. Since August 2003, we have reached new inventory management agreements with more than 90% of all pharmaceutical manufacturers, which with typical price increases would have achieved our compensation goals. Among larger manufacturers, new agreements reached during this phase focused primarily on securing an appropriate level of compensation with a lower level of investment inventory. However, these agreements continue to tie our compensation to the magnitude and timing of pharmaceutical price increases, which when they differ from historical patterns can cause significant fluctuations to our earnings as demonstrated by our experience this quarter."
     "The second phase now underway with larger manufacturers is focused on maintaining appropriate compensation while improving the visibility and predictability of our economics by reducing our dependency on price inflation-based compensation. While it is still early in this phase, I can report that we are making solid progress. We have signed fee-for-service agreements with about 80% of our manufacturer partners, including agreements with 25% of our largest manufacturers, which have historically driven a significant portion of our product sourcing margin."
 
     "Nothing in our company has a higher priority than evolving to more predictable compensation from pharmaceutical manufacturers. With many agreements already signed, we intend to substantially complete the process by our goal of the fiscal year end, March 31, 2005. The pharmaceutical executives with whom we have been meeting express appreciation and support for the system that we have created on their behalf to streamline inventories, drive efficiencies and preserve the safety and integrity of the drug supply in the United States. From our conversations, we believe that this evolution will proceed smoothly and collaboratively and we will continue to create value for our customers, manufacturer partners and shareholders, as a company and as an industry."
Medical-Surgical Solutions
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were flat at $713.5 million compared to the second quarter a year ago. Operating profit of $17.5 million was down 31% from $25.3 million a year ago due primarily to a $7 million increase in litigation reserves.
     "In Medical-Surgical Solutions, we continued to achieve strong growth among our alternate site customers," Hammergren continued. "Our track record for delivering year-over-year improvement in the earnings of this business has been interrupted, but we believe that our progress will resume."
 
Provider Technologies
     Provider Technologies revenues decreased 2% in the quarter to $304.0 million, with software revenues down 26%. Operating profit of $19.2 million was down 48% from $37.2 million in the second quarter a year ago, which included a net pre-tax credit of $9.9 million. Software bookings increased 12%, led by a 20% increase in clinical software bookings, but due to the size and complexity of the installations, the majority of the associated revenues are being deferred into future periods, reducing both revenues and operating profit in the quarter. Operating profit also continues to be impacted by a contracting change in the hospital automation business which took effect October 1, 2003.
     "In Provider Technologies, demand remains strong for our clinical solutions," said Hammergren. "Revenue growth and operating profit continue to be dampened by the slower pace of complex clinical software and automation implementations and weak demand for financial and administrative solutions. We anticipate future improvement in revenue growth and operating margin based on an increasing pace of implementations of systems previously sold."
Fiscal 2005 Expectations
     "We are revising our guidance for diluted earnings per share to $2.00 to $2.20 for the full fiscal year. Despite the progress we are making to secure more predictable compensation from manufacturers, the earnings in our Pharmaceutical Solutions segment will likely continue to be highly dependent on the level and timing of price increases through the end of fiscal 2005. Achieving this result is based primarily on the assumption that volume-weighted U.S. pharmaceutical price increases in our third and fourth quarters will be within the historical range, and that the magnitude of price increases will be comparable to the recent past. Earnings should also benefit from a larger and more profitable business with the VA compared to our expectations before implementing the agreement and the AdvancePCS business, which was not in our original expectations."
 
Company Highlights
The quarter included the following highlights:
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of current and potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; substantial defaults in payment or a
 
     material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software-related system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); tax legislation initiatives; foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 16 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 170-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
     Contact: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (VP, Investor Relations)
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


