FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20040122162200.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 22, 2004, the Company announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2004, ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 [MCKESSON LOGO] CONTACT: LARRY KURTZ VICE PRESIDENT, INVESTOR RELATIONS (415) 983-8418 MCKESSON REPORTS FISCAL 2004 THIRD QUARTER RESULTS - - Revenues of $18.2 billion, up 22%. - - Excluding warehouse sales, revenues up 14% with Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues up 15%. - - Net income of $120.2 million, down 10%, and diluted EPS of 41 cents, down 11%. SAN FRANCISCO, JANUARY 22, 2004 - McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the third quarter ended December 31, 2003, were $18.2 billion, an increase of 22% from $14.9 billion a year ago, including customer warehouse sales of $5.8 billion, which increased 45% from $4.0 billion. Excluding warehouse sales, revenues grew 14%, to $12.4 billion from $10.9 billion a year ago. Third quarter net income was $120.2 million, a decrease of 10% from $134.3 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 41 cents, a decrease of 11% from 46 cents. CORPORATE OVERVIEW "McKesson continued to have strong revenue growth in the third quarter, driven by U.S. and Canadian pharmaceutical distribution," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "While we had several unusual issues in the quarter, which we have now addressed, our earnings are primarily being impacted by the continued evolution of our Pharmaceutical Solutions business model. In response, we are working with manufacturers and customers to ensure that McKesson will be appropriately compensated for the valuable services we provide, and we continue to focus on improvements in our operating efficiency. We are encouraged by the progress we are making on all fronts."
McKesson's third-quarter results were impacted by a number of factors: - An estimated $25 million pre-tax reduction to Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit resulting from shifts in the timing of a significant number of pharmaceutical price increases anticipated for the third quarter. These price increases have now occurred and will improve fourth quarter results. - A previously announced automation contracting change that will delay an estimated $16 million in pre-tax Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit into future periods. - A $19 million pre-tax charge in the Pharmaceutical Solutions pharmacy outsourcing business resulting from $10 million in losses from a fixed price contract that has since been renegotiated and a $9 million bad debt provision. - A $22 million pre-tax increase to Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit from the cash proceeds for the settlement of an antitrust class action lawsuit brought against manufacturers of a cardiac drug. - A $20 million pre-tax contract charge in Information Solutions international operations. - An $8 million after-tax benefit resulting from certain income tax settlements and adjustments. Additionally, Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit was reduced by fewer vendor buying opportunities in the third quarter compared to a year ago. This continues a trend previously discussed in the second quarter. In the third quarter a year ago, McKesson's pre-tax income was reduced by several factors netting to approximately $19 million: $51 million in estimated contract losses for Information Solutions international operations, a $22 million credit for reversal of Information Solutions domestic customer settlement reserves and $10 million in gains from the sale of Pharmaceutical Solutions leases and equity investments. 2
"Looking ahead in Pharmaceutical Solutions, we are very pleased with our new contract to supply the Department of Veterans' Affairs," said Hammergren. "This agreement, combined with recently renewed agreements for major national distribution customers such as Rite-Aid, Omnicare and Caremark, provides a foundation for strong U.S. revenue growth throughout the next fiscal year." "This new contract and our contract renewals have been priced at competitive rates designed to deliver our target returns. Improving returns continues to be a corporate priority for shareholder value creation." "For our fourth quarter, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues, excluding warehouse sales, should grow about 13%. Warehouse sales growth should be above 35%. We expect a fourth-quarter decline of 20 to 25 basis points in operating margin. That anticipated decline includes both the positive impact of the shift in price increases from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, and the continued negative impacts of the automation contracting change and fewer product buying opportunities." "For fiscal 2005, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth should be in the mid to high teens, reflecting our new contracts and renewals. However, we expect that operating margin will remain under near-term pressure as the business model continues to evolve." "In Medical-Surgical Solutions, growth among alternate site customers remains strong, helping offset the transition of the previously announced loss of our largest acute care customer. Our operating improvement remains on schedule and we are pleased with the progress we are continuing to make." "In Information Solutions, revenue growth was flat due primarily to decreases in non-clinical software and outsourcing service revenues and the impact of longer installation timelines required for certain large, complex clinical implementations. In the fourth quarter, revenue growth should be up modestly from last year's strong performance. Operating margin in the fourth quarter should be up, in the range of 13 to 15%. This business continues to play a key role in our One McKesson hospital strategy." 3
THIRD QUARTER SEGMENT OPERATING PERFORMANCE PHARMACEUTICAL SOLUTIONS SEGMENT Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth among institutional customers was up strongly. Revenue growth from independent pharmacy customers continued to be solid. Institutional customers accounted for 45% of U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues, retail chains accounted for 34% and independent pharmacies, 21%. Warehouse sales were up 45% due to several new agreements. McKesson Canada revenues increased 35% in the quarter. On a constant currency basis, Canadian revenues would have increased 14%. Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit was down 21%, driven by the series of factors described above. During the third quarter a year ago, Pharmaceutical Solutions recorded a $5.3 million gain on the sale of customer lease receivables and a $4.5 million gain on the sale of venture investments. 4
MEDICAL-SURGICAL SOLUTIONS SEGMENT Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were down 1%. Revenue growth was strong among alternate site customers, especially physician offices, but was negatively impacted by the start of the transition of the previously announced loss of the segment's largest acute care customer. Operating profit of $22.3 million was up 27%, due to improved gross margins and lower operating costs. Operating profit was reduced by a charge of $2.0 million to restructure the medical-surgical distribution center network to mitigate the impact of the customer loss. INFORMATION SOLUTIONS SEGMENT Information Solutions revenues were flat compared to the prior year. Software revenues were down 9% to $56.2 million, primarily due to decreases in non-clinical software and the longer installation period required for certain large, complex clinical implementations, which has the effect of delaying revenue recognition. Services revenues were up 3% to $211.6 million. Hardware revenues were down 3% to $26.5 million. 5
Operating profit in the third quarter was reduced by the $20 million charge for estimated contract losses in international operations. Last year's third quarter included a net expense of $29 million reflecting the original $51 million charge for international contract losses, offset in part by the $22 million credit for the reversal of a portion of previously recorded reserves for domestic customer settlements. OTHER OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS McKesson's reported tax rate for the quarter was 26.7%, and included the $8 million benefit from certain income tax settlements and adjustments. The company's estimated tax rate for the fourth-quarter should be approximately 33%. Earnings per diluted share were based on 298.7 million average diluted shares in the quarter. 6
McKesson used cash of $276 million in operations year to date compared to generating $365 million in the first nine months a year ago. However, McKesson had no accounts receivable sales in this year's third quarter compared to accounts receivable sales of $900 million in the third quarter a year ago. The company's net debt to net capital ratio was 23.1% compared to 21.8% a year ago. The financial statements and the net debt to net capital ratio have been recast to effectively classify the company's trust convertible preferred securities as debt in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." The company repurchased $40 million of common shares in the quarter, completing a previously authorized $250 million share repurchase program. As previously announced, the company's Board of Directors has authorized a new $250 million share repurchase program. At December 31, 2003, McKesson had 291.2 million shares outstanding. A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today and on replay afterwards. Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website. 7
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 20 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 170-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com. Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of recently approved and potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to 8
successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise. 9
SCHEDULE I McKESSON CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS (1) (UNAUDITED) (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) (1) As a result of the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", the Company no longer consolidates its investment in the McKesson Financing Trust (the "Trust"). Accordingly, the Company now recognizes long-term debt issued to the Trust in lieu of the preferred securities that the Trust issued to third parties. Additionally, the consolidated financial statements include interest expense on the long-term debt issued to the Trust and no longer report dividends on the preferred securities, net of tax. These changes did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, including diluted earnings per share. For the quarters and nine months ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, interest expense, net of related income taxes, of $1.5 million and $4.6 million, has been added to net income for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share. This adjustment reflects the impact of the Company's potentially dilutive obligations. (2) In September 2002, we sold a marketing fulfillment business, which was included in our Pharmaceutical Solutions segment. Financial results for this business have been presented as a discontinued operation.
SCHEDULE II McKESSON CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME INFORMATION BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (UNAUDITED) (IN MILLIONS)
SCHEDULE III McKESSON CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (1) (UNAUDITED) (IN MILLIONS) (1) See note 1 on Schedule I.
SCHEDULE IV McKESSON CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED) (IN MILLIONS)
SCHEDULE V McKESSON CORPORATION RETURN ON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMMITTED CAPITAL (UNAUDITED) (IN MILLIONS) The Company utilizes return on committed capital as a measure to evaluate its ability to generate income relative to its investment in capital. The Company believes that the most directly comparative GAAP measure is return on stockholders' equity.


