FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20050505160715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 5, 2005, the McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005, ended March 31, 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)     Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2005, were $20.6 billion, an increase of 15%. Fourth-quarter net income was $259.0 million, an increase of 21%, and diluted earnings per share were 85 cents, an increase of 16%.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 5, 2005 
     For the full fiscal year, McKesson had revenues of $80.5 billion, an increase of 16%. For the year, McKesson had a net loss of $156.7 million or 53 cents per share including the previously announced after-tax charge of $810.0 million associated with the agreement to settle the company's consolidated securities class action and reserves for remaining related cases. Excluding the securities litigation charge, net income for the year was $653.3 million, an increase of 1%, and earnings per diluted share was $2.19, equal to last year.
 
     "McKesson's excellent fourth quarter results reflect outstanding performance by our Pharmaceutical Solutions segment, which had a 36% increase in operating profit from a year ago," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "I'm pleased that our annual EPS results were strong, despite the ongoing evolution in our pharmaceutical distribution business begun during the year."
     "Our performance demonstrates that following the lack of pharmaceutical price increases in our second quarter, we rapidly developed and executed a plan to smoothly and collaboratively transition our agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers to deliver acceptable and more predictable compensation in future years while maintaining acceptable compensation during the current year. As expected, pharmaceutical price increases returned to historical ranges late in calendar 2004, and our higher-margin generics programs continued to expand faster than the market, both of which generated strong profits in the fourth quarter. Generics revenues in fiscal 2005 were up 34% versus the prior year, and represent a great opportunity in coming years."
     "Our negotiations with manufacturers to secure predictable compensation are nearing completion. We have either signed, or are well along in our discussions and negotiations with all manufacturers. As a result, more than 80% of our pharmaceutical manufacturer compensation will not be affected by the timing or magnitude of price increases when these new agreements have been signed by mid-year. Our new pharmaceutical manufacturer agreements together with our continuing focus on supply chain efficiencies drove record operating cash flow of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2005. As a result, we ended the year with $1.8 billion in cash."
     "Market growth and greater shipments by pharmaceutical manufacturers through the wholesale channel continue to drive growth in our Canadian business. McKesson Canada revenues were up 17% for the year, including a positive currency impact of approximately 7%."
 
During the fourth quarter, McKesson had a pre-tax LIFO credit of $29.2 million compared to $27.9 million pre-tax LIFO charge in the fourth quarter a year ago. For the full year, due primarily to the lack of pharmaceutical price increases in the second quarter and continued generic conversions, McKesson had a pre-tax LIFO credit of $59.2 million compared to a pre-tax LIFO charge of $27.9 million a year ago.
     "In addition to the excellent performance of our Pharmaceutical Solutions segment, our other two segments continue to gain momentum," Hammergren continued. "Medical-Surgical Solutions operating profit was up 6% in the quarter on revenue growth of 10%. Growth remained strong among our alternate site customers and we lapped the loss of one large acute care customer in the fourth quarter a year ago."
     "Provider Technologies revenues were up 12% for the quarter and 8% for the year. Software and software systems revenues in the fourth quarter were up 35% to $79 million, and were up 13% for the year to $246 million, driven primarily by an increase in automation systems revenues and increased implementations of clinical software solutions. Software bookings were up strongly for the quarter and were a record level for the full year, driven by continued demand for clinical solutions."
     The growth in software revenues helped produce an operating margin of 12.44% for the quarter and 8.20% for the year. Last year, Provider Technologies had an operating margin of 25.63% for the fourth quarter, which included positive adjustments to customer settlement and international contract reserves of $62 million.
 
     During the fourth quarter, Provider Technologies reached a tentative agreement with the National Health Service of England and Wales (NHS) to amend certain key terms and conditions in their 2002 contract to develop, implement and operate a human resources and payroll system at more than 600 NHS locations. The amendment includes an extension, and revised payment and implementation schedule. We expect the amendment to be signed in the first quarter of Fiscal 2006. However, if the amendment is not signed, is modified or if further delays occur, significant losses may result, which could be material.
Fiscal Year 2006 Outlook
     "Looking back over the past five years since Fiscal 2000, McKesson has delivered industry leading performance while rebuilding our infrastructure, strengthening our balance sheet, enhancing our management team and creating stronger, value-based relationships with our customers and supplier partners," Hammergren said. "As a result, we are well-positioned for sustained growth driven by both an increase in the absolute level of healthcare demand, and the expectations of healthcare consumers that the quality of healthcare they will receive is the best that can be delivered."
     "We are also extremely pleased to have announced in January that we reached a settlement in the securities litigation which, following court approval, can easily be funded given our strong balance sheet and cash flow. We now have tremendous financial flexibility to continue to create shareholder value."
     "For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, McKesson expects to earn between $2.25 and $2.40 per fully diluted share. Although new agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers provide a higher level of predictability for compensation, the historical seasonal pattern of earnings is expected to continue. Once we have lapped new distribution agreements that took effect in Fiscal 2005, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth should be at market revenue growth, adjusted for our mix of business."
 
Additional Key Assumptions for Fiscal Year 2006 Outlook
     The Fiscal 2006 outlook is based on the additional key assumptions provided below and is also subject to the Risk Factors provided below in this press release.
 
Fiscal 2005 Corporate Highlights
     The past 12 months included the following major accomplishments by the company:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of recently approved and potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
 
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM EDT today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 15 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 172-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
Contact: McKesson Corporation
     Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418
     larry.kurtz@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


