FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20050127161748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 27, 2005, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2005, ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)     Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the third fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2004, were $20.8 billion, an increase of 14% from $18.2 billion in the third quarter a year ago. For the quarter, McKesson had a net loss of $665 million or $2.26 per share including the previously announced after-tax charge of $810 million for settling the company's consolidated securities class action and reserves for remaining related cases.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 27, 2005 
     Not including the securities litigation charge, McKesson had net income of $145 million or 49 cents per diluted share, an increase of 20%. Net income in the third quarter a year ago was $120 million or 41 cents per share.
     "We are very pleased with this quarter's 20% growth in earnings per share, excluding the impact of our securities litigation charge," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are also pleased with the continued improvement in our cash flow, which year-to-date is up strongly versus last year."
     "Earlier this month, we announced a settlement agreement that represents a major positive step in resolving the securities litigation and removing the uncertainty that has been an overhang on the company for the past six years. Given our strong balance sheet and increasing cash flow, we expect to have no difficulty financing the settlement as payment becomes due later this calendar year. We look forward to the increased financial flexibility we now have to continue to execute our strategy for creating shareholder value."
     A discussion of results by business segment follows.
 
Pharmaceutical Solutions
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues including warehouse sales were up 14% to $19.7 billion from the third quarter a year ago. U.S. Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues excluding warehouse sales were up 19% and warehouse sales were up 6% in the quarter, despite having one less selling day compared to a year ago. Canadian revenues were up 17%, including a positive currency impact of 9%.
     Operating profit was up 19%, to $244.7 million from $205.4 million the prior year. The third quarter this year included a $20 million LIFO credit.
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth was again strong, reflecting new customer agreements in the U.S. that took effect earlier in the year, and continued growth in Canada," said Hammergren. "McKesson is the largest pharmaceutical distributor in North America, with leading positions in the United States, Canada and Mexico. We believe we are extremely well-positioned to take advantage of the demographics driving increasing drug utilization in this important region. In addition, within each geography, we are well-balanced in terms of customer categories and product mix."
     "Pharmaceutical price increases played an important role in our third-quarter Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit. The magnitude and timing of these increases returned to their historical ranges in the latter portion of the quarter. This trend has continued in January."
     "While we are pleased with the trend and this quarter's results, our goal is to reach new agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that improve the visibility and predictability of our economics while maintaining appropriate compensation. I am pleased to report that we continue to make significant progress in our discussions. We are in the process of finalizing new agreements that meet these objectives with more than half of our largest manufacturing partners, and expect to meet our goal of having a significant majority of our volume covered by these new agreements by fiscal year end. On the customer side, we remain focused on meeting our customers' needs through prime vendor relationships that can be expanded over time to include additional value-adding products and services."
 
Medical-Surgical Solutions
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were up 3% to $736 million compared to the third quarter a year ago. Operating profit of $24.7 million was down 5% from $25.9 million a year ago.
     "In Medical-Surgical Solutions, we again achieved solid growth among our alternate site customers," Hammergren said. "However, the lack of flu vaccine supply this season hampered sales to physician offices and reduced our operating profit."
Provider Technologies
     Provider Technologies revenues increased 13% in the third quarter to $332 million. Software revenues were up 41% to $66 million, driven primarily by an increase in automation revenues and increased implementations of clinical software solutions. Operating profit of $27.6 million was up from $2.6 million in the third quarter a year ago, which included a $20 million increase in reserves for international contracts.
     "In Provider Technologies, demand remains strong for our clinical solutions and we are beginning to see acceleration in the pace of our implementations," continued Hammergren. "Since announcing in early January that 100 physicians at the Duke University Heart Center began using Horizon Expert Orders, the implementation has been expanded in the last 30 days to cover the medical, surgical, pulmonary and ICU units, with 96% of orders entered by physicians using computers. An aggressive hospital-wide rollout is now underway. Our success with this complex implementation demonstrates the viability of this product and provides valuable experience that can be applied to accelerate other installations in earlier stages of implementation."
Fiscal 2005 Expectations
     "While we are making excellent progress securing more predictable compensation from manufacturers, our earnings through the end of the fiscal year continue to be somewhat dependent on the level and timing of price increases, which to date in the quarter have met our expectations. Assuming that the timing and magnitude of pharmaceutical price increases remain within their historical ranges for the balance of our fiscal year, we are narrowing our guidance for Fiscal 2005 diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of the securities litigation charge to $2.05 to $2.15 from our
 
     previous guidance of $2.00 to $2.20. We continue to expect to generate significantly better operating cash flow than last year's $563 million," concluded Hammergren.
Company Highlights
     The quarter included the following highlights:
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending securities litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of current and potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical
 
     manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software-related system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); tax legislation initiatives; foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards. Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, all of which are located on the company's website.
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 16 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 170-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
CONTACT:
          Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418           (Investors and Financial Press)           larry.kurtz@mckesson.com           Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023           (Business and Trade Media)           kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


