FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20050727161821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 27, 2005, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the first quarter ended June 30, 2005, were $21.1 billion, an increase of 10%. First-quarter net income was $171 million, including a $52 million net pre-tax charge to increase the company's securities litigation reserve, compared to $164 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 55 cents, the same as a year ago. Excluding the impact of the securities litigation charge, diluted earnings per share was 66 cents, an increase of 20%.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 27, 2005 
     "McKesson's strong momentum from the second half of Fiscal 2005 is continuing into the first quarter of Fiscal 2006," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our results reflect further progress in Pharmaceutical Solutions and outstanding first quarter results in Provider Technologies. More efficient inventory management in our pharmaceutical distribution business combined with improving financial performance in all of our segments continued to drive increasing operating cash flow. For the quarter, operating cash flow was $637 million, including a $143 million payment from the U.K. National Health Service, compared to $111 million in the first quarter a year ago."
 
Segment Results
          "For the quarter, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 10%, reflecting the continued impact of new distribution agreements that took effect in Fiscal 2005, revenue growth in our Canadian operations and the expected slowing in the growth rate of customer warehouse sales. Sales of generics were up 26% in the quarter. Pharmaceutical Solutions revenue growth will slow to market rates adjusted for our mix of business once we fully lap the implementations of our new agreements in the second and third quarters of this year."
          "Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit was up 4%, reflecting the growth in revenues and increased mix of generics, offset by increases in operating expenses. As previously announced, quarterly operating profit benefited from a $51 million settlement of an antitrust class action lawsuit involving a pharmaceutical manufacturer compared to a similar settlement of $41 million in the first quarter a year ago. We are focused on improving sell margins to customers and continue to see signs of stability in these margins. We have addressed the challenges in U.S. pharmaceutical distribution and now have a business that is more predictable and requires a lower level of inventory investment."
          "Medical-Surgical Solutions revenue was up 5%, while operating profit was flat in the quarter. We have signed distribution agreements with more flu vaccine manufacturers than any other distributor, and our pre-season bookings of flu vaccine orders have been very strong. We continue to have a positive outlook for this business."
          "Provider Technologies had an excellent quarter, with revenues up 17%. Operating profit more than doubled. Software and software systems revenues were up 22%, driven by increased sales and implementations of clinical and imaging solutions and automation systems revenues. We are clearly gaining momentum in this business. We have the leading position in key clinical product areas, we have changed the game in automation and medication safety, and we are seeing an expanding market for our clinical solutions."
 
Outlook
          "Based on our first-quarter results and the continued progress in our business, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, McKesson expects to earn between $2.25 and $2.40 per fully diluted share, excluding adjustments to the securities litigation reserve," Hammergren said.
          "Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in cash. We continue to expect that cash flow from operations will exceed $1 billion for the full fiscal year. Our strong balance sheet and significant operating cash flow, combined with our improving financial performance, enables us to pursue various avenues to create shareholder value."
          "During the quarter, we announced two strategic acquisitions. The pending acquisition of D&K Healthcare will expand the Pharmaceutical Solutions presence in community pharmacy, a key category of customers who are the prime outlet for our higher-margin proprietary generics programs. We were pleased to have received early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period from the Federal Trade Commission for our transaction, and are proceeding with our tender offer. Our pending acquisition of Medcon will strengthen our market-leading position in enterprise imaging software by adding one of the most highly rated cardiology imaging solutions to our McKesson Provider Technologies product offering. Both acquisitions should be accretive to earnings per share in Fiscal 2007."
          "During the quarter, we also repurchased $66 million of McKesson shares, and now have approximately $143 million remaining on our current $250 million authorization. Earlier today, the Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of six cents per share."
          "In the future, we plan to continue to apply a portfolio approach to shareholder value creation  a mix of acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends," Hammergren concluded.
 
Securities Litigation Update
          On June 9, the company announced it had received an order from Judge Ronald M. Whyte denying "without prejudice" preliminary approval of the previously announced proposed settlement of the consolidated class action pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The order expressed the court's objection to two non-monetary provisions of the settlement. McKesson and the Lead Plaintiff in the action have submitted a revised settlement agreement that both sides believe fully addresses the court's objections.
          McKesson has now settled six of the additional cases not included in the consolidated class action. Based on the settlements reached and the company's current assessment of the remaining cases, the company recorded a $52 million net pre-tax charge in the quarter.
Corporate Highlights
          The first quarter included the following news at the company:
 
 
 
Risk Factors
          Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
 
          . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
          McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 15 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 172-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


