FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20051108161210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 8, 2005, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)    Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the company's second quarter ended September 30, 2005, were $21.6 billion, an increase of 8% over the prior year. Second quarter net income was $167 million or 53 cents per fully diluted share, compared to $86 million or 29 cents per fully diluted share in the second quarter a year ago. Second quarter net income includes an after-tax gain of $13 million or four cents per share for the sale of the McKesson BioServices business unit, which is reported as a discontinued operation. Second quarter net income from continuing operations was $154 million or 49 cents per fully diluted share.
SAN FRANCISCO, November 8, 2005 
     "Our significant improvement in operating profit and earnings per share from a year ago was due to an outstanding performance in Pharmaceutical Solutions," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit increased 69%, reflecting our continued focus on expanding our operating margin, the progress we have made evolving our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and continued growth in our generics programs. We also had another excellent quarter in Provider Technologies."
 
     "Our evolving relationships with manufacturers combined with more efficient inventory management in our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business continue to be the primary factors producing record operating cash flow. In addition, at the end of our second quarter, we benefited from some favorable timing in our working capital accounts. Year-to-date, operating cash flow was $2 billion, compared to $365 million for the first six months a year ago."
     "This record cash flow has enabled us to continue to apply a portfolio approach to shareholder value creation  a mix of strategic acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends. Year-to-date, we have spent $575 million on acquisitions, including D&K Healthcare Resources (D&K) and Medcon, $290 million to repurchase shares and $36 million to pay dividends."
     "McKesson was fortunate to have experienced little impact to our operations or facilities from the devastation of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. We were proud to have played a role in providing pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and nurse triage services to the affected areas. We are continuing to support the recovery of our affected customers and employees."
Segment Results
     "For the quarter, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 8%, reflecting growth from our customers who are winning in the marketplace, new and expanded distribution agreements, revenue growth in our Canadian operations and revenues from D&K. This revenue increase was offset in part by slowing market growth and slower growth of customer warehouse sales than we achieved a year ago."
     "Pharmaceutical Solutions operating margin expanded 44 basis points to 1.23%, reflecting our progress with manufacturers and an increased mix of generics. Margin expansion was partially offset by increases in operating expenses, including those of D&K. We are now moving aggressively to integrate the D&K operations and deliver operating efficiencies as we retain the customer base. While execution work remains, we are making great progress, and once we have completed our integration plan, this business should be accretive to segment results next fiscal year."
 
     "Medical-Surgical Solutions revenue was up 8%, with growth across all sectors of the business. Revenue growth among alternate site customers was strong as we began seasonal shipments of flu vaccine. Operating profit was $23 million compared to $18 million in the second quarter a year ago, which included a litigation settlement charge."
     "In Provider Technologies, revenues were up 18%, with software and software systems revenues up 32%. We continue to see strong demand for our clinical and imaging software solutions and automation systems, and are focused on accelerating the pace of our implementations. Bookings were also strong in the quarter, including several large agreements that include software, pharmacy automation, supply chain automation, cabinets and bedside scanning technology in unique solutions designed to reduce medication errors and improve efficiencies."
     "Operating profit was up 37%, from $19 million to $26 million. We have begun integrating the Medcon cardiology solution into our overall clinical and imaging offering. This acquisition had a $3 million negative impact on segment operating profit in the quarter and will continue to be negative throughout this fiscal year, but it should be accretive to Fiscal 2007 results. With the increasingly positive trends toward more I.T. purchases by hospitals, we have also increased investments in development and sales to expand our market position over the next several years."
Outlook
     "Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with almost $3 billion in cash. Using our strong balance sheet and significant operating cash flow, combined with our improving financial performance, we plan to continue our portfolio approach to create shareholder value."
     "During the quarter, we repurchased $224 million of shares, completing the previous $250 million authorization and beginning a new $250 million share repurchase program approved in August. Over time, we have a goal of repurchasing shares to offset the dilution resulting from the exercise of stock options."
 
     "We are clearly pleased with the momentum we have across McKesson. Based on our positive year-to-date results and the continued progress in our business, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, McKesson expects to earn $2.25 to $2.40 per fully diluted share from continuing operations, excluding any adjustments to the securities litigation reserve," Hammergren concluded.
     The guidance range is based on a tax rate for continuing operations for Fiscal 2006 of approximately 35%, up from original guidance of 32.5%. Partially offsetting the impact of the increased tax rate is a $37 million pre-tax gain from an anti-trust settlement which will be recorded in this year's third quarter. The EPS range also assumes approximately 315 million shares in the dilution calculation.
     As previously announced, by order entered September 28, 2005, the Honorable Ronald M. Whyte granted preliminary approval of the proposed settlement of the consolidated class action pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and established a schedule for further proceedings, including a hearing date of January 27, 2006 on final approval of the settlement. McKesson now expects to be able to fund the pending $960 million consolidated class action settlement from cash.
Corporate Highlights
     The second quarter included the following news at the company:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); foreign currency
 
fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 15 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 172-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


