FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20050801162432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement 2005 Stock Plan At the McKesson Corporation (the "Company") Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on July 27, 2005 (the "Annual Meeting"), the Companys stockholders approved the 2005 Stock Plan attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. Under the 2005 Stock Plan, the plan administrator may grant incentive and nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and other share-based awards to employees and nonstatutory stock options and restricted stock units to directors. The administrator intends to grant only restricted stock units to non-employee directors. 13,000,000 shares of Company common stock are reserved for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan; provided, that the maximum number of shares or share equivalents that may be subject to full value awards (including restricted stock and restricted stock units) granted to a plan participant in any fiscal year of the Company is 500 ,000 shares or share equivalents and the maximum number of shares that may be subject to options or stock appreciation rights granted to a participant in a fiscal year is 1,000,000. Any shares not issued due to an awards expiration or forfeiture may again become available for issuance under the plan. For any one share of Company common stock issued in connection with a full value award or a stock-settled stock appreciation right, that share and one additional share are no longer available for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan. The plan administrator has the authority to accelerate the vesting of stock awards, including, in the administrators discretion, the authority to accelerate stock award vesting in connection with a change in control of the Company. The 2005 Stock Plan will terminate on May 24, 2015 and no new awards may be granted after that date. The Companys board of directors may amend or terminate the 2005 Stock Plan at any time. Certain plan amendments, including an increase in shares available for issuance under the plan and an expansion of the class of persons eligible to receive awards, will require additional stockholder approval. Statement of Terms and Conditions Applicable to Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares Granted to Employees Pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan The 2005 Stock Plan administrator intends to grant options and restricted stock units to employees. The terms and conditions of these awards are set forth in the Statement of Terms and Conditions Applicable to Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares Granted to Employees Pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan, attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2. The material terms of the options include: options are incentive or nonstatutory stock options; the option exercise price is at least equal to the fair market value of the stock underlying the option on the date of grant; and options have a maximum seven year term which may be shortened if an employees employment with the Company terminates. The material terms of the restricted stock units include: awards are denominated in share equivalents; payment under the awards will be made only in shares of Company common stock; and award holders may elect to defer receipt of the shares pursuant to rules established under the Companys Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II (or any successor plan) and in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. On July 27, 2005, executive officers were granted options, using the form of terms and conditions approved by the Committee. Statement of Terms and Conditions Applicable to Restricted Stock Units Granted to Outside Directors Pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2005 Stock Plan, each non-employee director was granted a restricted stock unit award on July 27, 2005. The terms and conditions of the restricted stock unit awards are set forth in the Statement of Terms and Conditio ns Applicable to Restricted Stock Units Granted to Outside Directors Pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan, attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3. The material terms of the restricted stock unit awards include: 2,500 share equivalents are subject to the awards; the awards are one hundred percent vested on the date of grant; and payment under the awards will be made only in shares of Company common stock and only upon a non-employee directors termination of service with the Company. Performance Restricted Stock Unit Target Awards At its meeting on May 24, 2005 the Committee determined that the target Performance Restricted Stock Unit awards for Fiscal Year ("FY") 2006 for the executive officers named below to be granted under the 2005 Stock Plan, subject to approval of the plan by the stockholders, would be the number of units set forth next to their names. The Committee determined that the performance measure for these awards will be FY 2006 earnings per share. The actual number of units that wi ll be awarded may be smaller or larger than the target awards, depending on the actual performance of the Company, and will vest 3 years after the award: John Hammergren,Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer - 140,000 Paul Julian, Executive Vice President, Group President - 72,000 Jeffrey Campbell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - 32,000 Pamela Pure, Executive Vice President, President McKesson Provider Technologies - 32,000 Ivan Meyerson, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary - 10,000 2005 Management Incentive Plan Also at the Annual Meeting, the Companys stockholders approved the 2005 Management Incentive Plan (the "MIP"), attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4. The MIP is a performance-based bonus program. Only employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the MIP. Bonuses are paid annually based on the achievement of individual target awards. In the event of a change in control of the C ompany, however, bonus amounts are guaranteed to be paid at least at target rates. Individual target awards are measured using financial, non-financial and other performance goals established by the MIP administrator at the beginning of each Company fiscal year. At the end of the fiscal year, the administrator will review and approve, modify or disapprove bonus amounts. Bonuses may be forfeited if the MIP administrator determines an employee has engaged in certain prohibited activities. Bonuses are paid in a single lump such as soon as is reasonably practicable after the administrator has determined the bonus amounts. Employees may be permitted to defer receipt of their bonus pursuant to rules established under the Companys Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II (or any successor plan) and in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Bonuses paid the chief executive officer and the other four highest paid officers are designed to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) so that the Company is able to deduct bonuses paid to these officers for corporate tax purposes. The Companys board of directors generally may amend or terminate the MIP at any time. MIP Target Awards At its meeting on May 24, 2005, the Committee determined that the performance measure under the MIP for FY 2006 will be earnings per share. The Committee further determined that the target awards of the executive officers named below under the MIP for FY 2006 will be the amounts set forth next to their names. The actual amounts that will be awarded may be smaller or larger than the target awards, depending on the actual performance of the Company: John Hammergren - $1,721,250 Paul Julian - $675,000 Jeffrey Campbell - $484,800 Pamela Pure - $413,250 Ivan Meyerson - $ 354,000
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This McKesson Corporation 2005 Stock Plan is intended to provide Employees and Directors the opportunity to receive equity-based, long-term incentives so that the Corporation may effectively attract and retain the best available personnel, promote the success of the Corporation by motivating Employees and Directors to superior performance, and align Employee and Director interests with those of the Corporation's stockholders.
This Plan was adopted by the Board on May 25, 2005, to be effective immediately, subject to approval by the Corporation's stockholders.
(a) .
Administration with respect to Outside Directors
With respect to Awards to Outside Directors, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board; provided that such committee consists solely of Directors who qualify as "non-employee directors" for purposes of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Awards made to members of the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance shall be approved by the Board.
(b) .
Administration with respect to Employees
With respect to Awards to Employees, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, (B) the Compensation Committee of the Board; provided that such committee consists solely of Directors who qualify as "outside directors" for purposes of Code section 162(m) and "non-employee directors" for purposes of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or (C) in limited situations, by an officer or officers of Corporation pursuant to Section 3(c) below.
(c) .
Delegation of Authority to an Officer of the Corporation
(i) The Board may delegate to a Director the authority to administer the Plan with respect to Awards made to Employees who are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(ii) The Board may delegate to an officer or officers of the Corporation the authority to administer the Plan with respect to Options granted to Employees who are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(d)
.
Powers of the Administrator
The Administrator shall from time to time at its discretion make determinations with respect to Employees and Directors who shall be granted Awards, the number of Shares or Share Equivalents to be subject to each Award, the vesting of Awards, the designation of Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options and other conditions of Awards to Employees and Directors.
The Administrator shall have the full power and authority, in its sole discretion, to promulgate any rules and regulations which it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan, to supervise the administration of the Plan, to make factual determinations relevant to Plan entitlements, to adopt subplans applicable to specified Affiliates or locations and to take all actions in connection with the administration of the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable.
The Administrator shall have, subject to the terms and conditions and within the limitations of Plan, including the limitations of Section 22, the authority to modify, extend or renew outstanding Awards granted to Employees and Directors under the Plan; provided, that an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall not be modified, extended or renewed beyond its maximum seven year term. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, no modification of an Award shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair any Award previously granted under the Plan.
The interpretation and construction by the Administrator of any provisions of the Plan or of any Award shall be final. No member of a Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, Awards may be granted to Employees and Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, only employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries may be granted Incentive Stock Options.
(a) .
Ten Percent Stockholders
An Employee who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Corporation, its parent or any of its Subsidiaries is not eligible to receive an Incentive Stock Option pursuant to this Plan unless the Exercise Price of the Incentive Stock Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares on the date of the grant and the term of the option does not exceed five years. For purposes of this Section 4(a) the stock ownership of an Employee shall be determined pursuant to Code section 424(d).
(b) .
Number of Awards
A Participant may receive more than one Award, including Awards of the same type, but only on the terms and subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16, the maximum aggregate number of Shares or Share Equivalents that may be subject to Full Value Awards granted to a Participant in any fiscal year of the Corporation is 500,000 Shares or Share Equivalents and the maximum number of Shares or Share Equivalents that may be subject to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted to a Participant in any fiscal year of the Corporation is 1,000,000 Shares or Share Equivalents.
(a) .
Share Reserve
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16, the aggregate number of Shares subject to Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Other Share-Based Awards issued under this Plan shall not exceed 13,000,000 Shares, which Shares shall be Shares of the Corporation's authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock bought on the market or otherwise. If any outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right under the Plan for any reason expires or is terminated or any Restricted Stock or Other Share-Based Award is forfeited, then the Shares allocable to the unexercised portion of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the forfeited Restricted Stock or Other Share-Based Award may again be available for issuance under the Plan. The following Shares may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan: Shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right or Option; Shares used to pay the withholding taxes related to an Award; or Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Exercise Price.
(b) .
Limitation
Notwithstanding any other provision of Section 5, for any one Share issued in connection with a Full Value Award or a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right, that Share and one additional Share shall no longer be available for issuance in connection with future Awards.
Options granted to Employees and Directors pursuant to the Plan shall be evidenced by written Option Agreements in such form as the Administrator shall determine. Options shall be designated as Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options and shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a) .
Number of Shares
Each Option shall state the number of Shares to which it pertains, which shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 16.
(b) .
Exercise Price
Each Option shall state the Exercise Price, determined by the Administrator, which shall not be less than 100% the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, except as provided in Section 16.
(c)
.
Method of Payment
An Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving notice of exercise in the manner prescribed by the Corporation specifying the number of Shares to be purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the Exercise Price in cash or, if acceptable to the Administrator in its sole discretion (i) in Shares already owned by the Participant (including, without limitation, by attestation to the ownership of such Shares), (ii) by the withholding and surrender of the Shares subject to the Option, or (iii) by delivery (on a form prescribed by the Administrator) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker approved by the Administrator to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sales proceeds to the Corporation in payment of all or part of the purchase price and any withholding taxes. Payment may also be made in any other form approved by the Administrator, consistent with applicable law, regulations and rules.
(d) .
Term and Exercise of Options
Each Option shall state the time or times when it may become exercisable. No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of seven years from the date it is granted.
(e) .
Limitations on Transferability
An Option shall, during a Participant's lifetime, be exercisable only by the Participant. No Option or any right granted thereunder shall be transferable by the Participant by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) a Participant may designate a beneficiary to succeed, after the Participant's death, to all of the Participant's Options outstanding on the date of death; (ii) a Nonstatutory Stock Option or any right granted thereunder may be transferable pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; and (iii) any Participant, who is a senior executive officer recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Administrator may voluntarily transfer any Nonstatutory Stock Option to a Family Member as a gift or through a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Family Members (or the Participant) in exchange for an interest in that entity. In the event of any attempt by a Participant to alienate, assign, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of an Option or of any right thereunder, except as provided herein, or in the event of the levy of any attachment, execution, or similar process upon the rights or interest hereby conferred, the Corporation at its election may terminate the affected Option by notice to the Participant and the Option shall thereupon become null and void.
(f) .
Termination of Employment
Each Option Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or service with the Corporation and its Affiliates. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment. Unless otherwise provided in the Option Agreement, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, extend the post-termination exercise period with respect to an option (but not beyond the original term of such option).
(g) .
Rights as a Stockholder
A Participant or a transferee of a Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Option until the date of issuance of such Shares. Except as provided in Section 16, no adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such Shares are issued.
(h) .
Limitation of Incentive Stock Option Awards
If and to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date the Option is granted) of the Shares with respect to which any Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year under this Plan and all other plans maintained by the Corporation, its parent or its Subsidiaries exceeds $100,000, the Options covering Shares in excess of such amount (taking into account the order in which the Options were granted) shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.
(i) .
Other Terms and Conditions
The Option Agreement may contain such other terms and conditions, including restrictions or conditions on the vesting of the Option or the conditions under which the Option may be forfeited, as may be determined by the Administrator that are consistent with the Plan.
Stock Appreciation Rights granted to Employees pursuant to the Plan may be granted alone, in addition to, or in conjunction with, Options. Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by written Stock Appreciation Right Agreements in such form as the Administrator shall determine and shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a) .
Number of Shares
Each Stock Appreciation Right shall state the number of Shares or Share Equivalents to which it pertains, which shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 16.
(b) .
Calculation of Appreciation; Exercise Price
The appreciation distribution payable on the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right will be equal to the excess of (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value (on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right) of a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares or Share Equivalents in which the Participant is vested under such Stock Appreciation Right on such date, over (ii) an amount that will be determined by the Administrator on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right but that shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant (the "Exercise Price").
(c)
.
Term and Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights
Each Stock Appreciation Right shall state the time or times when may become exercisable. No Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable after the expiration of seven years from the date it is granted.
(d) .
Payment
The appreciation distribution in respect of a Stock Appreciation Right may be paid in Common Stock or in cash, or any combination of the two, or in any other form of consideration as determined by the Administrator and contained in the Stock Appreciation Right Agreement.
(e) .
Limitations on Transferability
A Stock Appreciation Right shall, during a Participant's lifetime, be exercisable only by the Participant. No Stock Appreciation Right or any right granted thereunder shall be transferable by the Participant by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) a Participant may designate a beneficiary to succeed, after the Participant's death, to all of the Participant's Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding on the date of death; (ii) a stand-alone Stock Appreciation Right or a Stock Appreciation Right granted in conjunction with a Nonstatutory Stock Option or any right granted thereunder may be transferable pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; and (iii) any Participant, who is a senior executive officer recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Administrator may voluntarily transfer any stand-alone Stock Appreciation Right or a Stock Appreciation Right granted in conjunction with a Nonstatutory Stock Option to a Family Member as a gift or through a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Family Members (or the Participant) in exchange for an interest in that entity. In the event of any attempt by a Participant to alienate, assign, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of a Stock Appreciation Right or of any right thereunder, except as provided herein, or in the event of the levy of any attachment, execution, or similar process upon the rights or interest hereby conferred, the Corporation at its election may terminate the affected Stock Appreciation Right by notice to the Participant and the Stock Appreciation Right shall thereupon become null and void.
(f) .
Termination of Employment
Each Stock Appreciation Right Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Stock Appreciation Right following termination of the Participant's employment or service with the Corporation and its Affiliates. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator, need not be uniform among all Stock Appreciation Right Agreements entered into pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment.
(g) .
Rights as a Stockholder
A Participant or a transferee of a Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Stock Appreciation Right until the date of issuance of such Shares. Except as provided in Section 16, no adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such Shares are issued.
(h) .
Other Terms and Conditions
The Stock Appreciation Right Agreement may contain such other terms and conditions, including restrictions or conditions on the vesting of the Stock Appreciation Right or the conditions under which the Stock Appreciation Right may be forfeited, as may be determined by the Administrator that are consistent with the Plan.
(a) .
Grants
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, grants of Restricted Stock will be made, the number of shares of Restricted Stock to be awarded, the price (if any) to be paid by the recipient of Restricted Stock, the time or times within which such Awards may be subject to forfeiture, and all other terms and conditions of the Awards. The Administrator may condition the grant of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of specified performance objectives established by the Administrator pursuant to Section 13 or such other factors as the Administrator may determine, in its sole discretion.
The terms of each Restricted Stock Award shall be set forth in a Restricted Stock Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant, which Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Administrator determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan. A book entry shall be made in the records of the Corporation' transfer agent for each Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Award, alternatively, such Participant shall be issued a stock certificate in respect of such shares of Restricted Stock. If a certificate is issued, it shall be registered in the name of such Participant, and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Award. The Administrator shall require that stock certificates evidencing such shares be held by the Corporation until the restrictions lapse and that, as a condition of any Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall deliver to the Corporation a "stock assignment separate from certificate" relating to the stock covered by such Award.
(b) .
Restrictions and Conditions
The shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to this Section 8 shall be subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
(i) During a period set by the Administrator commencing with the date of such Award (the "Restriction Period"), the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or encumber shares of Restricted Stock, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Within these limits, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may provide for the lapse of such restrictions in installments and may accelerate or waive such restrictions in whole or in part, based on service, performance, a Change in Control or such other factors or criteria as the Administrator may determine in its sole discretion.
(ii) Except as provided in this paragraph (ii) and paragraph (i) above, the Participant shall have, with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Corporation, including the right to vote the shares and the right to receive any cash dividends. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, as determined at the time of Award, may provide that the payment of cash dividends shall or may be deferred and, if the Administrator so determines, invested in additional shares of Restricted Stock to the extent available under Section 5, or otherwise invested. Stock dividends issued with respect to Restricted Stock shall be treated as additional shares of Restricted Stock that are subject to the same restrictions and other terms and conditions that apply to the shares with respect to which such dividends are issued.
(iii) The Administrator shall specify the conditions under which shares of Restricted Stock may be forfeited and such conditions shall be set forth in the Restricted Stock Agreement.
(iv) If and when the Restriction Period applicable to shares of Restricted Stock expires without a prior forfeiture of the Restricted Stock, an appropriate book entry recording the Participant's interest in unrestricted Shares shall be entered on the records of the Corporation's transfer agent or, if appropriate, certificates for an appropriate number of unrestricted Shares shall be delivered promptly to the Participant, and the certificates for the shares of Restricted Stock shall be canceled.
(a) .
Grants
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees and Directors to whom, and the time or times at which, grants of Restricted Stock Units will be made, the number of Restricted Stock Units to be awarded, the price (if any) to be paid by the recipient of the Restricted Stock Units, the time or times within which such Restricted Stock Units may be subject to forfeiture, and all other terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Unit Awards. The Administrator may condition the grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards upon the attainment of specified performance objectives established by the Administrator pursuant to Section 13 or such other factors as the Administrator may determine, in its sole discretion.
The terms of each Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be set forth in a Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant, which Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Administrator determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan. No book entry shall be made in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent for a Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, nor shall such Participant be issued a stock certificate in respect of such Restricted Stock Units, and the Participant shall have no right to or interest in shares of Common Stock of the Corporation as a result of the grant of Restricted Stock Units.
(b) .
Restrictions and Conditions
The Restricted Stock Units awarded pursuant to this Section 9 shall be subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
(i) At the time of grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Administrator may impose such restrictions or conditions on the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, as the Administrator deems appropriate. During such vesting period, the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or encumber the Restricted Stock Units, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Within these limits, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may provide for the lapse of such restrictions in installments and may accelerate or waive such restrictions in whole or in part, based on service, performance, a Change in Control or such other factors or criteria as the Administrator may determine in its sole discretion.
(ii) Dividend equivalents may be credited in respect of Restricted Stock Units, as the Administrator deems appropriate. Such dividend equivalents may be credited on behalf of the Participant to a deferred cash account (in a manner prescribed by the Administrator and in compliance with Code section 409A) or converted into additional Restricted Stock Units by dividing (1) the aggregate amount or value of the dividends paid with respect to that number of Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units then credited by (2) the Fair Market Value per Share on the payment date for such dividend. The additional Restricted Stock Units credited by reason of such dividend equivalents will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award to which they relate.
(iii) The Administrator shall specify the conditions under which Restricted Stock Units may be forfeited and such conditions shall be set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.
(c) .
Deferral Election
Each recipient of a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be entitled to elect to defer all or a percentage of any Shares he or she may be entitled to receive upon the lapse of any restrictions or vesting period to which the Award is subject. This election shall be made by giving notice in a manner and within the time prescribed by the Administrator and in compliance with Code section 409A.
Each Outside Director may be granted a Restricted Stock Unit Award on the date of each annual stockholders meeting for up to 5,000 Share Equivalents, as determined by the Board. Such limitation is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16. Each Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be fully vested on the date of grant; provided, however, that receipt of any Shares as payment for the Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be delayed until such time as the Outside Director's service with the Corporation terminates. Dividend equivalents may be credited in respect of Restricted Stock Units, as the Administrator deems appropriate. Such dividend equivalents may be credited on behalf of the Participant to a deferred cash account (in a manner prescribed by the Administrator and in compliance with Code section 409A) or converted into additional Restricted Stock Units by dividing (1) the aggregate amount or value of the dividends paid with respect to that number of Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units then credited by (2) the Fair Market Value per Share on the payment date for such dividend. The additional Restricted Stock Units credited by reason of such dividend equivalents will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award to which they relate. Other terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Unit Awards granted to Outside Directors shall be determined by the Board subject to the provisions of Section 9 and the Plan.
(a) .
Grants
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, grants of Performance Shares will be made, the number of Performance Shares to be awarded, the price (if any) to be paid by the recipient of the Performance Shares, the time or times within which such Performance Shares may be subject to forfeiture, and all other terms and conditions of the Performance Shares.
The terms of Performance Shares shall be set forth in a Performance Share Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant, which Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Administrator determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan. With respect to a Performance Shares, no book entry shall be made in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent nor shall certificate for shares of Common Stock be issued at the time the grant is made, and the Participant shall have no right to or interest in shares of Common Stock of the Corporation as a result of the grant of Performance Shares.
(b) .
Restrictions and Conditions
(i) The Performance Shares awarded pursuant to this Section 11 shall be subject to the following restrictions and conditions: The Administrator may condition the grant of Performance Shares upon the attainment of specified performance objectives established by the Administrator pursuant to Section 13 or such other factors as the Administrator may determine, in its sole discretion or the Administrator may, at the time of grant of a Performance Share Award, set performance objectives in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number of Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participant. In either case, the time period during which the performance objectives must be met is called the "Performance Period." After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the recipient of the Performance Shares will be entitled to receive the number of Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance objectives have been achieved, and which shares may be subject to additional vesting. After the grant of Performance Shares, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any performance objective for such Performance Shares.
OTHER SHARE-BASED AWARDS
.
(a) .
Grants
Other Awards of Shares and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares ("Other Share-Based Awards"), may be granted either alone or in addition to or in conjunction with other Awards under this Plan. Awards under this Section 12 may include (without limitation) the grant of Shares conditioned upon some specified event, the payment of cash based upon the performance of the Common Stock or the grant of securities convertible into Common Stock.
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees to whom and the time or times at which Other Share-Based Awards shall be made, the number of Shares, Share Equivalents or other securities, if any, to be granted pursuant to Other Share-Based Awards, and all other conditions of the Other Share-Based Awards. The Administrator may condition the grant of an Other Share-Based Award upon the attainment of specified performance goals or such other factors as the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion. In granting an Other Share-Based Award, the Administrator may determine that the recipient of an Other Share-Based Award shall be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, interest or dividends or dividend equivalents with respect to the Shares or other securities covered by the Award, and the Administrator may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested. The terms of any Other Share-Based Award shall be set forth in an Other Share-Based Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Participant, which Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Administrator determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan.
(b) .
Terms and Conditions
In addition to the terms and conditions specified in the Other Share-Based Award Agreement, Other Share-Based Awards shall be subject to the following:
(i) Any Other Share-Based Award may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, prior to the date on which the Shares are issued or the Award becomes payable, or, if later, the date on which any applicable restriction, performance or deferral period lapses.
(ii) The Other Share-Based Award Agreement shall contain provisions dealing with the disposition of such Award in the event of termination of the Employee's employment or the Director's service prior to the exercise, realization or payment of such Award, and the Administrator in its sole discretion may provide for payment of the Award in the event of the Participant's termination of employment or service with the Corporation or a Change in Control, with such provisions to take account of the specific nature and purpose of the Award.
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
.
The Administrator shall determine the terms and conditions of Awards at the date of grant or thereafter; provided that performance objectives, if any, for each year related to an Award granted to a Covered Employee shall be established by the Administrator not later than the latest date permissible under Section 162(m). To the extent that such Awards are paid to Covered Employees, the performance criteria to be used shall be any of the following, either alone or in any combination, which may be expressed with respect to the Corporation or one or more operating units or groups, as the Compensation Committee of the Board may determine: cash flow; cash flow from operations; total earnings; earnings per share, diluted or basic; earnings per share from continuing operations, diluted or basic; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization; earnings from operations; net asset turnover; inventory turnover; capital expenditures; net earnings; operating earnings; gross or operating margin; debt; working capital; return on equity; return on net assets; return on total assets; return on investment; return on capital; return on committed capital; return on invested capital; return on sales; net or gross sales; market share; economic value added; cost of capital; change in assets; expense reduction levels; debt reduction; productivity; stock price; customer satisfaction; employee satisfaction; and total shareholder return. In addition, such performance goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of the Corporation's performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other corporations, may be (but need not be) different from year-to-year, and different performance objectives may be applicable to different Participants.
Performance objectives may be determined on an absolute basis or relative to internal goals or relative to levels attained in prior years or related to other companies or indices or as ratios expressing relationships between two or more performance objectives. In addition, performance objectives may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of corporate performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other corporations. The Administrator shall specify the manner of adjustment of any performance objective to the extent necessary to prevent dilution or enlargement of any Award as a result of extraordinary events or circumstances, as determined by the Administrator, or to exclude the effects of extraordinary, unusual, or non-recurring items; changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; currency fluctuations; discontinued operations; non-cash items, such as amortization, depreciation, or reserves; asset impairment; or any recapitalization, restructuring, reorganization, merger, acquisition, divestiture, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, combination, liquidation, dissolution, sale of assets, or other similar corporate transaction.
The Administrator shall have the power to accelerate the time at which an Award may first be exercised or the time during which an Award or any part thereof will vest, notwithstanding the provisions in the Award stating the time at which it may first be exercised or the time during which it will vest.
CHANGE IN CONTROL
.
(a) An Award may be subject to additional acceleration of vesting and exercisability upon or after a Change in Control as may be provided in the applicable agreement and determined by the Committee on a grant by grant basis or as may be provided in any other written agreement between the Company or any Affiliate and the Participant; provided, however, that in the absence of such provision, no such acceleration shall occur.
(b) A "Change in Control" of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the events set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall occur:
(i) Any "person" (as such term is used in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), excluding the Corporation or any of its affiliates, a trustee or any fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or a Corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Corporation, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
(ii) During any period of not more than two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director designated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Corporation to effect a transaction described in clause (i), (iii) or (iv) of this paragraph) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(iii) The shareholders of the Corporation approve a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other Corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior
thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Corporation, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Corporation or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Corporation (or similar transaction) in which no person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
(iv) The shareholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Corporation or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the holders of the Stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions.
In the event that the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, stock, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or share exchange, or other similar corporate transaction or event, affects the Common Stock such that an adjustment is appropriate in order to preserve (but not increase) the rights of participants under the Plan, then the Administrator shall make such equitable changes or adjustments as it deems necessary or appropriate to any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares which may thereafter be issued in connection with respect to Awards pursuant to Sections 4(b) and 5, (ii) the number and kind of shares issued in respect of outstanding Awards, and (iii) the Exercise Price relating to any Options or Stock Appreciation Right.
Awards may be granted pursuant to the Plan until the termination of the Plan on May 24, 2015.
(a) .
Securities Law
No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the Plan unless and until the Corporation has determined that: (i) it and the Participant have taken all actions required to register the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933 or perfected an exemption from registration; (ii) any applicable listing requirement of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed has been satisfied; and (iii) any other applicable provision of state or federal law has been satisfied.
(b) .
Employment Rights
Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain employed by the Corporation or an Affiliate or to remain in service as a Director. The Corporation and its Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the employment of any Employee at any time, with or without cause or for no cause, subject only to a written employment contract (if any), and the Board reserves the right to terminate a Director's membership on the Board for cause in accordance with the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation.
(c)
.
Stockholders' Rights
Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, a Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to an appropriate book entry recording the Participant's interest in Shares being entered on the records of the Corporation's transfer agent or, if appropriate, the issuance of a stock certificate for such Shares. No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such book entry is made or such certificate is issued.
The Administrator shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, rules, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to facilitate compliance with the provisions of the laws and procedures of foreign countries in which the Corporation or its Affiliates may operate to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards made to Participants employed in such countries and to meet the intent of the Plan.
Participants and their Beneficiaries may designate on the prescribed form one or more Beneficiaries to whom distribution shall be made of any Award outstanding at the time of the Participant's or Beneficiary's death. A Participant or Beneficiary may change such designation at any time by filing the prescribed form with the Administrator. If a Beneficiary has not been designated or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, distribution will be made to the Participant's spouse, or if none, the Participant's children in equal shares, or if none, to the residuary beneficiary under the terms of the Participant's or Beneficiary's last will and testament or, in the absence of a last will and testament, to the Participant's or Beneficiary's estate as Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may prescribe specific methods or restrictions on beneficiary designations made Participants or Beneficiaries located outside of the United States.
The Board may suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time. The Compensation Committee of the Board may amend the Plan with respect to any Shares at the time not subject to Awards; provided, however, that only the Board may amend the Plan and submit the Plan to the stockholders of the Corporation for approval with respect to amendments that:
(a) Increase the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan or increase the number of Shares available for issuance pursuant to Incentive Stock Options under the Plan;
(b) Materially expand the class of persons eligible to receive Awards;
(c) Expand the types of awards available under the Plan;
(d) Materially extend the term of the Plan;
(e) Materially change the method of determining the Exercise Price or purchase price of an Award;
(f) Delete or limit the requirements of Section 22;
(g) Remove the administration of the Plan from the Administrator; or
(h) Amend this Section 21 to defeat its purpose.
Without the consent of the stockholders of the Corporation, except as provided in Section 16, the Administrator shall have no authority to effect either (i) the repricing of any outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan or (ii) the cancellation of any outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan and the grant in substitution therefor of new Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan covering the same or different numbers of Shares.
Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to Awards shall constitute general funds of the Corporation.
The granting of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall impose no obligation upon the Participant to exercise such Option or Stock Appreciation Right.
This Plan and any amendments requiring stockholder approval pursuant to Section 21 shall be subject to approval by affirmative vote of the stockholders. Such vote shall be taken at the first annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation following the adoption of the Plan or of any such amendments, or any adjournment of such meeting.
The law of the State of Delaware shall govern all question concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of the Plan, without regard to the state's conflict of laws rules.
The Plan is designed and intended to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, Code section 162(m), and Code section 409A and Notice 2005-1 promulgated thereunder, and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply.
WITHHOLDING TAXES
.
(a) .
General
To the extent required by applicable law, the recipient of any payment or distribution under the Plan shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the satisfaction of any required income tax, social insurance, payroll tax or other tax related to withholding obligations that arise by reason of such payment or distribution. The Corporation shall not be required to make such payment or distribution until such obligations are satisfied.
(b) .
Other Awards
The Administrator may permit a Participant who exercises an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or who vests in an other Award to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding tax obligations by having the Corporation withhold a portion of the Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her under such Awards. Such Shares shall be valued at the Fair Market Value on the date when taxes otherwise would be withheld in cash. The payment of withholding taxes by surrendering Shares to the Corporation, if permitted by the Administrator, shall be subject to such restrictions as the Administrator may impose, including any restrictions required by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(a) "" means the Board, either of the Committees appointed to administer the Plan or, if applicable, an officer of the Corporation appointed to administer the Plan in accordance with Section 3(c).
Administrator
(b) "" means any entity, whether a corporation, partnership, joint venture or other organization that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Corporation.
Affiliate
(c) "" means any award of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or an Other Share-Based Award under the Plan.
Award
(d) "" means a person designated as such by a Participant or a Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan or determined with reference to Section 20.
Beneficiary
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(g) "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board, or both, as applicable.
Committee
(h) "" means the $0.01 par value common stock of the Corporation.
Common Stock
(i) "" means McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Corporation
(j) "" means the Chief Executive Officer or any Employee whose total compensation for the taxable year is required to be reported to stockholders under the Exchange Act by reason of such Employee being among the four highest compensated officers for the taxable year (other than the chief executive officer).
Covered Employee
(k) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(l) "" means an individual employed by the Corporation or an Affiliate (within the meaning of Code section 3401 and the regulations thereunder).
Employee
(m) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(n) "" means the price per Share at which an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised.
Exercise Price
(o) "" of a Share as of a specified date means
Fair Market Value
(i) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading on any stock exchange, the closing price on the date the Award is granted as reported by such stock exchange (for example, on its official web site, such as www.nyse.com), or
(ii) if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on a stock exchange, the mean between the lowest reported bid price and highest reported asked price of the Common Stock on the date the Award is granted in the over-the-counter market, as reported by such over-the-counter market (for example, on its official web site, such as www.otcbb.com), or if no official report exists, as reported by any publication of general circulation selected by the Corporation which regularly reports the market price of the Shares in such market.
(p) "" means any person identified as an "immediate family" member in Rule 16(a)-1(e) of the Exchange Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may designate any other person(s) or entity(ies) as a "family member."
Family Member
(q) "" means an Award that does not provide for full payment in cash or property by the Participant.
Full Value Award
(r) "" means an Option described in Code section 422(b).
Incentive Stock Option
(s) "" means an Option not described in Code section 422(b) or 423(b).
Nonstatutory Stock Option
(t) "" means an Incentive Stock Option or Nonstatutory Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 6. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the Participant which contains the terms and conditions pertaining to the Option.
Option
Option Agreement
(u) "" means an Award granted pursuant to Section 12. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the recipient of an Other Share-Based Award which contains the terms and conditions pertaining to the Other Share-Based Award.
Other Share-Based Award
Other Share-Based Award Agreement
(v) "" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Outside Director
(w) "" means an Employee or Director who has received an Award.
Participant
(x) "" means an Award denominated in Share Equivalents granted pursuant to Section 11 that may be earned in whole or in part based upon attainment of performance objectives established by the Administrator pursuant to Section 13. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the recipient of the Performance Shares which contains the terms and conditions pertaining to the Performance Shares.
Performance Shares
Performance Share Agreement
(y) "" means this McKesson Corporation 2005 Stock Plan.
Plan
(z) "" means Shares granted pursuant to Section 8. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the recipient of the Restricted Stock which contains the terms, conditions and restrictions pertaining to the Restricted Stock.
Restricted Stock
Restricted Stock Agreement
(aa) "" means an Award denominated in Share Equivalents granted pursuant to Section 9 in which the Participant has the right to receive a specified number of Shares at or over a specified period of time. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the recipient of the Restricted Stock Unit Award which contains the terms and conditions pertaining to the Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Restricted Stock Unit
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(bb) "" means one share of Common Stock, adjusted in accordance with Section 16 (if applicable).
Share
(cc) "" means a bookkeeping entry representing a right to the equivalent of one Share.
Share Equivalent
(dd) "" means a right, granted pursuant to Section 7, to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of Shares which will be payable in Shares or cash as established by the Administrator. "" means the agreement between the Corporation and the recipient of the Stock Appreciation Right which contains the terms and conditions pertaining to the Stock Appreciation Right.
Stock Appreciation Right
Stock Appreciation Right Agreement
(ee) "" means any corporation in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
EXECUTION
.
To record the adoption of the Plan effective May 25, 2005, the Corporation has caused its authorized officer to execute the same.
MCKESSON CORPORATION
By

The following terms and conditions shall apply to each Award granted under the Plan to an Employee eligible to participate in the Plan. This Statement of Terms and Conditions is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A and any rules promulgated thereunder and is subject to the terms of the Plan and of any Award made pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized term not otherwise defined in this Statement of Terms and Conditions shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . An Option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Option Agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of the Option, including whether the Option is an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option and the number Shares subject to the Option. Each Option Agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Option Notice and Agreement
2. . The per Share Exercise Price of an Option, as specified in the Option Agreement, shall be equal to or greater than the per Share Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Option on the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
3. . An Option shall be exercisable only during the applicable Option Period, and during such Option Period the exercisability of the Option shall be subject to the vesting provisions of Section II.4 as modified by the rules set forth in Sections II.5 and V. The Option Period shall be not more than seven years from the Grant Date.
Option Period
4. .
Vesting of Right to Exercise Options
(A) Except as provided in Section V, an Option shall be exercisable during the Option Period in accordance with the following vesting schedule: (i) 25% of the Shares subject to the Option shall vest on the first anniversary of the Grant Date; (ii) an additional 25% of the Shares shall vest on the second anniversary of the Grant Date; (iii) an additional 25% of the Shares shall vest on the third anniversary of the Grant Date; and (iv) the remaining 25% of the Shares subject to the Option shall vest on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may specify a different vesting schedule at the time the Option is granted and as specified in the Option Agreement.
(B) Any vested portion of an Option not exercised hereunder shall accumulate and be exercisable at any time on or before the Termination Date, subject to the rules set forth in Section V. No Option may be exercised for less than 5% of the total number of Shares then available for exercise under such Option. In no event shall the Corporation be required to issue fractional shares.
5. . The Option Period may end before the Termination Date, and in the circumstances described in Sections II.5(B), (D), (E) and (F), the vesting schedule of an Option may be accelerated, (subject to the provisions of Section V), as follows:
Limits on Option Period and Acceleration of Vesting
(A) If a Participant ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or of its affiliates during the Option Period for reasons other than for Cause (as defined herein), Long-Term Disability, Normal or Early Retirement or death, the Option Period shall end ninety days after the date of the Participant's termination of employment or on the Termination Date, whichever occurs first and in all cases the Option shall be exercisable only to the extent that it was exercisable under the provisions of the foregoing Section II.4 at the time of such termination of employment. If a Participant is absent from work with the Corporation or an affiliate because of his or her Short-Term Disability or because the Participant is on an approved leave of absence, the Participant shall not be deemed during the period of any such absence, by virtue of such absence alone, to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate except as the Administrator may otherwise expressly determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is on a voluntarily leave of absence for the purpose of serving the government of the country of which the Participant is a citizen or in which the Participant's principal place of employment is located and such leave exceeds twelve months in duration, then the Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate for purposes of this Section II.5(A).
(B) If a Participant ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or of its affiliates (for reasons other than for Cause, Long-Term Disability, Normal or Early Retirement or death) during the Option Period, the Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion (and subject to conditions deemed appropriate in the circumstances) approve the continuation of the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option. The Option Period for any Option that continues to vest pursuant to this subsection (B) shall end ninety days after the last Option installment vests, or on the Termination Date, whichever occurs first.
(C) If the Participant's employment is terminated for Cause during the Option Period, the Option Period shall end on the date of such termination of employment and the Option shall thereupon not be exercisable to any extent whatsoever.
(D) If a Participant ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or of its affiliates due to his or her Long-Term Disability during the Option Period, the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option shall be accelerated, the Option shall become fully exercisable and the Option Period shall end three years after the date of the Participant's termination of employment or on the Termination Date, whichever occurs first.
(E)
If the Participant's employment is terminated:
(i) by reason of Normal Retirement, the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall become fully exercisable as of the date of Normal Retirement; or
(ii) by reason of Early Retirement, the Option shall be exercisable only to the extent that it was exercisable under the provisions of the foregoing Section II.4 at the time of such Early Retirement; provided, however, that the Administrator may, in its sole discretion (and subject to conditions deemed appropriate in the circumstances), either (A) accelerate the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option effective as of the date of the Participant's Early Retirement or (B) approve the continuation of the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option.
(iii) With respect to an Option held by a Participant at Normal or Early Retirement, the Option Period for that portion of the Option designated as a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall end three years after the date of retirement or on the Termination Date, whichever occurs first; provided, however, that in the case of an Option held by a Participant at Early Retirement as to which the Administrator exercises its discretionary authority to approve the continuation of the vesting schedule, the Option Period shall end on the earlier of the Termination Date or three years after the last Option installment vests.
(F) If a Participant should die while in the employ of the Corporation or an affiliate and during the Option Period, the vesting schedule of the Participant's Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall become fully exercisable, the Option Period shall end three years after the date of death or on the Termination Date, whichever occurs first, and the Participant's Beneficiary may exercise the entire unexercised portion of the then exercisable Shares covered by such Option (or any lesser amount) remaining on the date of death.
(G) If a Participant who ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or an affiliate is subsequently rehired prior to the expiration of his or her Option, then the Option shall continue to remain outstanding until such time as the Participant subsequently terminates employment. Upon the Participant's subsequent termination of employment, the post-termination exercise period calculated pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section II.5 shall be reduced by the number days between the date of the Participant's initial termination of employment and his or her re-hire date; provided, however, that if the rehired Participant continues to be employed by the Corporation or an affiliate for at least one year from his or her rehire date, then the post termination exercise period for the Option shall be determined in accordance with Sections II.5(A) through (F) and shall not be adjusted as described above.
6. . A Participant may exercise an Option with respect to all or any part of the exercisable Shares as follows:
Method of Exercise
(A) By giving the Corporation, or its authorized representative designated for this purpose, written notice of such exercise specifying the number of Shares as to which the Option is so exercised. Such notice shall be accompanied by an amount equal to the Exercise Price of such Shares, in the form of any one or combination of the following: cash or a certified check, bank draft, postal or express money order payable to the order of the Corporation in lawful money of the United States. The Participant may pay the Exercise Price, in whole or in part, by tendering to the Corporation or its authorized representative Shares which have been owned by the Participant for at least six months prior to said tender, and having a fair market value, as determined by the Corporation, equal to the Exercise Price, or in lieu of the delivery of actual Shares in such tender, the Corporation may accept an attestation by the Participant, in a form prescribed by the Corporation or its authorized representative, that the Participant owns sufficient Shares, which have been owned by the Participant for at least six months prior to said tender, of record or in an account in street name to satisfy the Exercise Price, and such attestation will be deemed a tender of Shares for purposes of this method of exercise. In the event a Participant tenders Shares to pay the Exercise Price, tender of Shares acquired through exercise of an Incentive Stock Option may result in unfavorable income tax consequences unless such Shares are held for at least two years from the Grant Date of the Incentive Stock Option and one year from the date of exercise of the Incentive Stock Option. The Corporation or its authorized representative may accept payment of the Exercise Price in the form of a Participant's personal check. Payment may also be made by delivery (including by FAX transmission) to the Corporation or its authorized representative of an executed irrevocable option exercise form together with irrevocable instructions to an approved registered investment broker to sell Shares in an amount sufficient to pay the Exercise Price plus any applicable withholding taxes and to transfer the proceeds of such sale to the Corporation.
(B) If required by the Corporation, by giving satisfactory assurance in writing, signed by the Participant, the Participant shall give his or her assurance that the Shares subject to the Option are being purchased for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof; provided that such assurance shall be deemed inapplicable to (1) any sale of the Shares by such Participant made in accordance with the terms of a registration statement covering such sale, which has heretofore been (or may hereafter be) filed and become effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and with respect to which no stop order suspending the effectiveness thereof has been issued, and (2) any other sale of the Shares with respect to which, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, such assurance is not required to be given in order to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act.
(C) As soon as practicable after receipt of the notice and the assurance described in Sections II.6(A) and (B), the Corporation shall, without transfer or issue tax (except for withholding tax arrangements contemplated in Section VII.6) and without other incidental expense to the Participant, cause an appropriate book entry to be entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent recording the Participant's unrestricted interest in the purchased Shares; provided, however, that the time of such delivery may be postponed by the Corporation for such period as may be required for it with reasonable diligence to comply with applicable registration requirements under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, any applicable listing requirements of any national securities exchange and requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or transfer of the Shares.
7. . An Option shall, during a Participant's lifetime, be exercisable only by the Participant. No Option or any right granted thereunder shall be transferable by the Participant by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) a Participant may designate a beneficiary to succeed, after the Participant's death, to all of the Participant's Options outstanding on the date of death; (ii) a Nonstatutory Stock Option may be transferable pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; and (iii) any Participant, who is a senior executive officer recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Administrator may voluntarily transfer any Nonstatutory Stock Option to a Family Member as a gift or through a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Family Members (or the Participant) in exchange for an interest in that entity. In the event of any attempt by a Participant to alienate, assign, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of an Option or of any right thereunder, except as provided herein, or in the event of the levy of any attachment, execution, or similar process upon the rights or interest hereby conferred, the Corporation at its election may terminate the affected Option by notice to the Participant and the Option shall thereupon become null and void.
Limitations on Transfer
8. . Neither a Participant nor any person entitled to exercise a Participant's rights in the event of the Participant's death shall have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Shares subject to an Option except to the extent that a book entry has been entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent with respect to such Shares upon the exercise of an Option.
No Shareholder Rights
1. . A Restricted Stock Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Restricted Stock Agreement to be executed by the Participant and the Corporation setting forth the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Award. Each Restricted Stock Agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Agreement
2. . Upon written acceptance of a grant of Restricted Stock Award by a Participant, including the restrictions and other terms and conditions described in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Agreement and herein, the Corporation shall cause an appropriate book entry to entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent recording the Participant's interest in the Restricted Stock. From and after the Grant Date, the Participant shall have absolute ownership of such shares of Restricted Stock, including the right to vote and to receive dividends thereon, subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions described in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Agreement and this Statement of Terms and Conditions.
Rights with Respect to Shares of Restricted Stock
3. . Each Restricted Stock Award made under the Plan shall contain the following terms, conditions and restrictions and such additional terms, conditions and restrictions as may be determined by the Administrator; provided, however, that no Restricted Stock grant shall be subject to additional terms, conditions and restrictions which are more favorable to a Participant than the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth elsewhere in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Agreement or this Statement of Terms and Conditions.
Special Restrictions
(A) . Until the restrictions imposed on any Restricted Stock grant shall lapse, shares of Restricted Stock granted to a Participant: (i) shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and (ii) shall, if the Participant's continuous employment with the Corporation or any of its affiliates shall terminate for any reason (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in Section III.3(B)) be returned to the Corporation forthwith, and all the rights of the Participant to such shares shall immediately terminate. If a Participant is absent from work with the Corporation or an affiliate because of his or her Short-Term Disability or because the Participant is on an approved leave of absence, the Participant shall not be deemed during the period of any such absence, by virtue of such absence alone, to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate except as the Administrator may otherwise expressly determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is on a voluntarily leave of absence for the purpose of serving the government of the country of which the Participant is a citizen or in which the Participant's principal place of employment is located and such leave exceeds twelve months in duration, then the Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate for purposes of this Section III.3(A).
Restrictions
(B) . Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the Plan or the Restricted Stock Agreement to the contrary, if a Participant who has been in the continuous employment of the Corporation or any of its affiliates since the Grant Date of a Restricted Stock Award ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or an affiliate as a result of death, Long-Term Disability, or Normal Retirement, then the restrictions imposed on any Restricted Stock Award shall lapse as to all shares of stock granted to such Participant pursuant to such Restricted Stock Award on the date of such termination.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death, Long-Term Disability or Normal Retirement
(C) . Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the Plan or the Restricted Stock Agreement to the contrary, if a Participant who has been in the continuous employment of the Corporation or any of its affiliates since the Grant Date of a Restricted Stock Award ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation of an affiliate by reason of Early Retirement, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion (and subject to conditions deemed appropriate in the circumstances), accelerate the vesting schedule of the Participant's Restricted Stock Award effective as of the date of the Participant's Early Retirement.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Early Retirement
4. . Cash dividends paid with respect to the Restricted Stock during the Restriction Period shall be paid directly to the Participant during the Restriction Period. Stock dividends paid with respect to Restricted Stock during the Restriction Period shall be treated as Restricted Stock which shall be subject to the same restrictions as the original award for the duration of the Restricted Period.
Dividends
5. . If any Participant validly elects within thirty days of the Grant Date, to include in gross income for federal income tax purposes an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Restricted Stock granted on the Grant Date, such Participant shall pay to the Corporation, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator to pay to the Corporation in the year of such grant, any federal, state or local taxes required to be withheld with respect to such shares in accordance with Section VII.6.
Election to Recognize Gross Income in the Year of Grant
6. . Each book entry in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent evidencing shares of stock granted pursuant to a Restricted Stock grant may bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions described in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Agreement and this Statement of Terms and Conditions.
Restrictive Legend
7. . If and when the Restriction Period applicable to the Restricted Stock expires without a prior forfeiture, an appropriate book entry recording the Participant's interest in the unrestricted Shares shall be entered on the records of the Corporation's transfer agent.
Expiration of Restricted Period
1. .
Award Agreement
(A) A Restricted Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to be executed by the Participant and the Corporation setting forth the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Unit Award. Each Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
(B) Performance Shares granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Performance Share Agreement to be executed by the Participant and the Corporation setting forth the terms and conditions of the Performance Shares. Each Performance Share Agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
2. . Restricted Stock Unit Awards and Performance Shares granted under the Plan shall contain the following terms, conditions and restrictions and such additional terms, conditions and restrictions as may be determined by the Administrator; provided, however, that no such Award shall be subject to additional terms, conditions and restrictions which are more favorable to a Participant than the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth elsewhere in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or Performance Share Agreement or this Statement of Terms and Conditions.
Special Restrictions
(A) . If a Participant ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation or an affiliates (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in Section III.3(B)) prior to the lapse of the restrictions imposed on the Award, the unvested Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares shall be returned to the Corporation, and all the rights of the Participant to such Share Equivalents shall immediately terminate. If a Participant is absent from work with the Corporation or an affiliate because of his or her Short-Term Disability or because the Participant is on an approved leave of absence, the Participant shall not be deemed during the period of any such absence, by virtue of such absence alone, to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate except as the Administrator may otherwise expressly determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is on a voluntarily leave of absence for the purpose of serving the government of the country of which the Participant is a citizen or in which the Participant's principal place of employment is located and such leave exceeds twelve months in duration, then the Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment with the Corporation or an affiliate for purposes of this Section IV.2(A).
Restrictions
(B) . Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the Plan, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or Performance Share Agreement to the contrary, if a Participant who has been in the continuous employment of the Corporation or any of its affiliates since the Grant Date shall, while in such employment, be terminated as a result of death, Long-Term Disability, or Normal or Early Retirement, then the restrictions imposed on any Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Shares shall lapse as to all Share Equivalents granted to such Participant pursuant to such Award on the date of such termination.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death, Long-Term Disability or Normal Retirement
(C) . Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the Plan or the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or Performance Share Agreement to the contrary, if a Participant who has been in continuous employment of the Corporation or any of its affiliates since the Grant Date of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Share Award ceases to be a bona fide employee of the Corporation of an affiliate by reason of Early Retirement, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion (and subject to conditions deemed appropriate in the circumstances), accelerate the vesting schedule of the Participant's Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares effective as of the date of the Participant's Early Retirement.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Early Retirement
3. . Dividend equivalents shall be credited in respect of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares. Cash dividends shall be credited on behalf of the Participant to a deferred cash account (in a manner designed to comply with Code Section 409A). Stock dividends shall be converted into additional Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares, which will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Shares, including the same vesting restrictions as the underlying award.
Dividend Equivalents
4. . A Participant shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or encumber such Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
Assignability
5. . Neither a Participant nor any person entitled to exercise a Participant's rights in the event of the Participant's death shall have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Share Equivalents subject to a Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Shares except to the extent that a book entry has been entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent with respect to such Shares upon the payment of any vested Restricted Stock Unit Award of Performance Shares.
No Shareholder Rights
6. . Upon the lapse of the restriction imposed on Restricted Stock Unit Awards or Performance Shares, all Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares that were not forfeited pursuant to Sections IV.2(A) or V shall be paid to the Participant as soon as reasonably practicable after the restrictions lapse. Payment shall be made in Shares in the form of a an appropriate book entry entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent recording the Participant's unrestricted interest in the number of Shares equal to the number of vested Share Equivalents subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Shares. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Participant may elect to defer payment of the Restricted Stock Units in the manner described in Section IV.6.
Time of Payment of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares
7. . Each Participant, pursuant to rules established by the Administrator, may be entitled to elect to defer all or a percentage of any payment in respect of a Restricted Stock Unit Award that he or she may be entitled to receive as determined pursuant to Section IV.5. This election shall be made by giving notice in a manner and within the time prescribed by the Administrator and in compliance with Code Section 409A. Each Participant must indicate the percentage (expressed in whole percentages) he or she chooses to defer of any payment he or she may be entitled to receive. If no notice is given, the Participant shall be deemed to have made no deferral election. Each deferral election filed with the Corporation shall become irrevocable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Corporation's Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II (DCAP II) (or any successor plan) and in compliance with Code Section 409A.
Deferral Election
Any other provision of this Statement of Terms and Conditions to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Administrator determines that a Participant has engaged in any of the actions described in 3 below, the consequences set forth in 1 and 2 below shall result:
1. Any outstanding Options shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited and shall cease to be exercisable, without limitation. In addition, any shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares as to which the restrictions have not lapsed shall immediately and automatically be forfeited and such shares or share equivalents shall be returned to the Corporation and all of the rights of the Participant to such shares or share equivalents shall immediately terminate.
2. If the restrictions imposed on any shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares lapsed within six months prior to the date the Corporation discovered that the Participant engaged in any action described in 3 below, the Participant, upon written notice from the Corporation, shall immediately pay to the Corporation the economic value realized or obtained with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock, the Restricted Stock Units or the Performance Shares, measured at the date such shares or share equivalents vested.
3. The consequences described in 1 and 2 above shall apply if the Participant, either before or after termination of employment with the Corporation or any of its affiliates:
(A) discloses to others, or takes or uses for his own purpose or the purpose of others, any trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or know-how belonging to the Corporation or any of its affiliates and obtained by the Participant during the term of his employment, whether or not they are the Participant's work product. Examples of such confidential information or trade secrets include, without limitation, customer lists, supplier lists, pricing and cost data, computer programs, delivery routes, advertising plans, wage and salary data, financial information, research and development plans, processes, equipment, product information and all other types and categories of information as to which the Participant knows or has reason to know that the Corporation or any of its affiliates intends or expects secrecy to be maintained;
(B) fails to promptly return all documents and other tangible items belonging to the Corporation or any of its affiliates in the Participant's possession or control, including all complete or partial copies, recordings, abstracts, notes or reproductions of any kind made from or about such documents or information contained therein, upon termination of employment for any reason;
(C) fails to provide the Corporation with at least thirty (30) days' written notice prior to directly or indirectly engaging in, becoming employed by, or rendering services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Corporation or any of its affiliates. As used herein, "business in competition" means any person, organization or enterprise which is engaged in or is about to become engaged in any line of business engaged in by the Corporation or any of its affiliates at the time of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its affiliates;
(D) fails to inform any new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this section and of the Participant's continuing obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the Corporation or any of its affiliates and obtained by the Participant during the term of his employment with the Corporation or any of its affiliates;
(E) induces or attempts to induce, directly or indirectly, any of the customers of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Corporation or any of its affiliates, or to breach any contract with the Corporation or any of its affiliates, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract with, the Participant or any third party; or
(F) engages in conduct which is not in good faith and which disrupts, damages, impairs or interferes with the business, reputation or employees of the Corporation or any of its affiliates.
The Administrator shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in (A) through (F) above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
Any provision of this Section V which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Section V.
CHANGE IN CONTROL
1. In the event of a Change in Control, all Options that are outstanding at the time of such Change in Control shall become 100 percent vested and immediately exercisable, all restrictions with respect to outstanding shares of Restricted Stock shall lapse and such Shares shall become 100 percent vested and all outstanding Restricted Stock Unit Awards, Performance Shares and Other Share-Based Awards shall become 100 percent vested and immediately payable
2. For purposes of this Statement of Terms and Conditions, a "Change in Control" of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the events set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall occur:
(i) Any "person" (as such term is used in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), excluding the Corporation or any of its affiliates, a trustee or any fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or a Corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Corporation, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
(ii) During any period of not more than two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director designated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Corporation to effect a transaction described in clause (i), (iii) or (iv) of this paragraph) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(iii) The shareholders of the Corporation approve a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other Corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior
thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Corporation, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Corporation or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Corporation (or similar transaction) in which no person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
(iv) The shareholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Corporation or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the holders of the Stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions.
1. . Subject to the terms of any employment contract entered into by the Corporation and a Participant to the contrary, the Corporation (or its affiliate which employs him) shall have the right to terminate or change the terms of employment of a Participant at any time and for any reason whatsoever.
No Effect on Terms of Employment
2. . In making grants to Participants in foreign countries, the Administrator has the full discretion to deviate from this Statement of Terms and Conditions in order to adjust grants under the Plan to prevailing local conditions, including custom and legal and tax requirements.
Grants to Participants in Foreign Countries
3. . Any information required to be given under the terms of a Agreement shall be addressed to the Corporation in care of its Secretary at McKesson Plaza, One Post Street, San Francisco, California 94104, and any notice to be given to a Participant shall be addressed to him at the address indicated beneath his or her name on the Agreement or such other address as either party may designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, registered or certified and deposited (postage or registration or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States.
Information Notification
4. . All decisions of the Administrator administering the Plan upon any questions arising under the Plan, under this Statement of Terms and Conditions, or under an Agreement, shall be conclusive.
Administrator Decisions Conclusive
5. . Nothing herein contained shall affect a Participant's right to participate in and receive benefits from and in accordance with the then current provisions of any pensions, insurance or other employment welfare plan or program offered by the Corporation.
No Effect on Other Benefit Plans
6. . Each Participant shall agree to make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation and his or her employer for satisfaction of any applicable federal, state or local income tax withholding requirements or payroll tax requirements. With respect to the exercise of an Option, such arrangements may include an election by A Participant to have the Corporation retain some portion of the Stock acquired pursuant to exercise of the Option to satisfy such withholding requirements. The election must be made prior to the date on which the amount to be withheld is determined.
Withholding
If a qualifying election is made, then upon exercise of an Option, in whole or in part, the Corporation will retain the number of Shares having a value equal to the amount necessary to satisfy any withholding requirements. Calculation of the number of Shares to be withheld shall be made based on the closing price of the Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined. In no event, however, shall the Corporation be required to issue fractional shares of Stock.
The Administrator shall be authorized to establish such rules, forms and procedures as it deems necessary to implement the foregoing.
With respect the vesting of an Award other than an Option, if the Participant does not make an arrangement with Corporation and his or her employer for satisfaction of the applicable income and withholding requirements or social security requirements in advance of the vesting date, the Corporation shall retain the number of Shares (that otherwise would have been payable to the Participant) having a value equal to the amount necessary to satisfy any withholding requirements. Calculation of the number of such Shares shall be as described above.
7. . This Statement of Terms and Conditions and the Award Agreements shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Corporation. "Participant" as used herein shall include the Participant's Beneficiary.
Successors
8. . The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Statement of Terms and Conditions and all Award Agreements shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
California Law
When capitalized in this Statement of Terms and Conditions, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below:
1. "" means a person designated as such by a Participant or a Beneficiary. If a Beneficiary has not been designated or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, distribution will be made to the Participant's surviving spouse, or if none, to the Participant's children in equal shares, or if none, to the residuary beneficiary under the terms of the Participant's or Beneficiary's last will and testament or, in the absence of a last will and testament, to the Participant's or Beneficiary's estate as Beneficiary.
Beneficiary
2. "" means termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation or an affiliate upon the Participant's negligent or willful engagement in misconduct which, in the sole determination of the Chief Executive Officer (or his designee), is injurious to the Corporation, its employees, or its customers.
Cause
3. "" means a termination of employment which occurs prior to Normal Retirement but on or after the date on which the Participant's age (expressed in terms of years and completed months) plus service with the Corporation equals 65.
Early Retirement
4. "" means any person identified as an "immediate family" member in Rule 16(a)-1(e) of the Exchange Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may designate any other person(s) or entity(ies) as a "family member."
Family Member
5. "" means the date the Administrator grants the Award.
Grant Date
6. "" means a physical or mental condition which the Social Security Administration has determined renders the Participant eligible to receive Social Security benefits on account of disability.
Long-Term Disability
7. "" means retirement at age 65 (62, in the case of a participant in the McKesson Corporation 1984 Executive Benefit Retirement Plan) with at least ten years of Service with the Corporation.
Normal Retirement
8. "" means the period commencing on the Grant Date of an Option and, except at otherwise provided in Section II.5, ending on the Termination Date.
Option Period
9. "" means "Service" as defined in the Corporation's Profit-Sharing Investment Plan.
Service
10. "" means short-term disability as defined in the Corporation's short-term disability plan.
Short-Term Disability
11. "" means the date that an Option expires as set forth in the Option Agreement.
Termination Date

The following terms and conditions shall apply to each Restricted Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan to an Outside Director eligible to participate in the Plan. This Statement of Terms and Conditions is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A and any rules promulgated thereunder and is subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized term not otherwise defined in this Statement of Terms and Conditions shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
1. . A Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to an Outside Director under the Plan shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to be executed by the Outside Director and the Corporation setting forth the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Unit Award. Each Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to this Statement of Terms and Conditions and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Award Agreement
2. . Restricted Stock Unit Awards granted to Outside Directors under the Plan shall contain the following terms, conditions and restrictions.
Terms and Conditions
(A) . Each Outside Director may be granted a Restricted Stock Unit Award on the date of each annual stockholders meeting.
Grant Date
(B) . 2,500 Share Equivalents shall be subject to each Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Number of Units
(C) . Each Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to an Outside Director will be fully vested on the date of grant.
No Restrictions
3. . Dividend equivalents shall be credited in respect of Restricted Stock Units. Cash dividends shall be credited on behalf of the Outside Director to a deferred cash account (in a manner designed to comply with Code Section 409A). Stock dividends shall be converted into additional Restricted Stock Units, which will be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Dividend Equivalents
4. . An Outside Director shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or encumber such Restricted Stock, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
Assignability
5. . Neither an Outside Director nor any person entitled to exercise Outside Director's rights in the event of the Outside Director's death shall have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Share Equivalents subject to a Restricted Stock Unit Award except to the extent that a book entry has been entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent with respect to such Shares upon the payment of any Restricted Stock Unit Award as described in Section II.6.
No Shareholder Rights
6. . All Restricted Stock Units granted to Outside Directors shall be paid only upon the Outside Director's separation from service with the Corporation. Payment shall be made in Shares in the form of a an appropriate book entry entered in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent recording the Participant's unrestricted interest in the number of Shares equal to the number of Share Equivalents subject to Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Time of Payment of Restricted Stock Units
1. . Nothing contained in this Statement of Terms and Conditions, the Plan or a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall affect the Corporation's right to terminate the service of any Outside Director.
No Effect on Terms of Service with the Corporation
2. . If an Outside Director is not a United States Citizen, the Board has the full discretion to deviate from this Statement of Terms and Conditions in order to adjust a Restricted Stock Unit Award to prevailing local conditions, including custom and legal and tax requirements.
Grants to Outside Directors in Foreign Countries
3. . Any information required to be given under the terms of a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall be addressed to the Corporation in care of its Secretary at McKesson Plaza, One Post Street, San Francisco, California 94104, and any notice to be given to an Outside Director shall be addressed to him at the address indicated beneath his or her name on the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement or such other address as either party may designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper addressed as aforesaid, registered or certified and deposited (postage or registration or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States.
Information Notification
4. . All decisions of the Administrator administering the Plan upon any questions arising under the Plan, under this Statement of Terms and Conditions, or under a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, shall be conclusive.
Administrator Decisions Conclusive
5. . Nothing herein contained shall affect an Outside Director's right, if any, to participate in and receive benefits from and in accordance with the then current provisions of any benefit plan or program offered by the Corporation.
No Effect on Other Benefit Plans
. Each Outside Director shall agree to make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation and his or her employer for satisfaction of any applicable federal, state or local income tax withholding requirements or payroll tax requirements if any is required.
Withholding
6. . This Statement of Terms and Conditions and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreements shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Corporation. "Outside Director" as used herein shall include the Outside Director's Beneficiary.
Successors
7. . The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Statement of Terms and Conditions and all Restricted Stock Unit Agreements shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
California Law

The name of this plan is the McKesson Corporation 2005 Management Incentive Plan. The Plan replaces in its entirety the Company's 1989 Management Incentive Plan. The Plan is effective, subject to approval by the Company's stockholders, for fiscal years of the Company commencing on and after April 1, 2005.
The purpose of the Plan is to advance and promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing performance-based incentives to certain employees and to motivate those employees to set and achieve above-average financial and non-financial objectives.
The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan, (i) to designate employees as Participants, (ii) to add and delete employees from the list of designated Participants, (iii) to establish Individual Target Awards for Participants, (iv) to establish performance goals upon achievement of which the Individual Target Awards will be based, and (v) to take all action in connection with the foregoing or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. Decisions and selections of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members and, if made pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, shall be final.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO") the power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan, (i) to designate employees who are not members of the Officer Group as Participants, (ii) to recommend members of the Officer Group to the Committee for designation as Participants; provided that the Committee shall review and approve members of the Officer Group as Plan Participants recommended by the CEO, (iii) to add and delete employees who are not members of the Officer Group from the list of designated Participants, (iv) to establish Individual Target Awards for Participants who are not members of the Officer Group, (v) to establish performance goals upon achievement of which such Individual Target Awards will be based, and (vi) to review and approve, modify or disapprove, or otherwise adjust or determine the amount, if any, to be paid to Participants who are not members of the Officer Group for the applicable Plan Year based on such Participants' performance goals and individual performance. In addition to the forgoing, the CEO may further delegate his authority to other executive offices of the Company, except that the CEO may not delegate his authority to recommend members of the Officer Group to the Committee for designation as Participants. References to the Committee herein shall include references to the CEO and his designees to the extent that the Committee has delegated power and authority under the Plan to the CEO and to the extent that the CEO has further delegated power and authority under the Plan to other executive officers of the Company.
The Committee may promulgate such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan and the CEO (but not his designees) may promulgate rules and regulations as he deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan with respect to Participants who are not members of the Officer Group. The Committee may interpret the provisions and supervise the administration of the Plan, and take all action in connection therewith or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. The interpretation and construction by the Committee of any provision of the Plan or of any award shall be final.
Only active employees of the Company who are employed in an executive, managerial or professional capacity may be designated as Participants under the Plan.
No person shall be entitled to any award under the Plan for any Plan Year unless he or she is so designated as a Participant for that Plan Year.
At the beginning of each Plan Year, the Committee shall establish an Individual Target Award for each Participant. An Individual Target Award shall only be a target and the amount of the target may or may not be paid to the Participant. Establishment of an Individual Target Award for an employee for any Plan Year shall not imply or require that an Individual Target Award or an Individual Target Award at any specified level will be set for any subsequent year. The amount of any actual award paid to any Participant may be greater or less than this target. As set forth in paragraph G.4 below (but subject to the limitations applicable to Covered Employees contained in Article H), the actual award may be as much as three times target or as low as zero for any Plan Year.
The Committee shall establish measures, which may include financial and non-financial objectives ("Performance Goals") for each segment of the Company. These Performance Goals shall be determined by the Committee in advance of each Plan Year or within such period as may be permitted by the regulations issued under Section 162(m), and to the extent that awards are paid to Covered Employees, the performance criteria to be used shall be any of the following, either alone or in any combination, which may be expressed with respect to the Company or one or more operating units or groups, as the Committee may determine: cash flow; cash flow from operations; total earnings; earnings per share, diluted or basic; earnings per share from continuing operations, diluted or basic; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization; earnings from operations; net asset turnover; inventory turnover; capital expenditures; net earnings; operating earnings; gross or operating margin; debt; working capital; return on equity; return on net assets; return on total assets; return on investment; return on capital; return on committed capital; return on invested capital; return on sales; net or gross sales; market share; economic value added; cost of capital; change in assets; expense reduction levels; debt reduction; productivity; stock price; customer satisfaction; employee satisfaction; and total shareholder return.
Performance Goals may be determined on an absolute basis or relative to internal goals or relative to levels attained in prior years or related to other companies or indices or as ratios expressing relationships between two or more Performance Goals. In addition, Performance Goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of Company performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other corporations. The Committee shall specify the manner of adjustment of any Performance Goal to the extent necessary to prevent dilution or enlargement of any award as a result of extraordinary events or circumstances, as determined by the Committee, or to exclude the effects of extraordinary, unusual, or non-recurring items; changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; currency fluctuations; discontinued operations; non-cash items, such as amortization, depreciation, or reserves; asset impairment; or any recapitalization, restructuring, reorganization, merger, acquisition, divestiture, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, combination, liquidation, dissolution, sale of assets, or other similar corporate transaction.
Awards may be based on performance against objectives for more than one segment of the Company. For example, awards for corporate management may be based on overall corporate performance against objectives, but awards for a unit's management may be based on a combination of corporate, unit and sub-unit performance against objectives.
Subject to the limitations set forth in Article H below, individual performance of each Participant may be measured and used in determining awards under the Plan.
After any Plan Year for which an Individual Target Award is established for a Participant under the Plan, the Committee shall review and approve, modify or disapprove the amount, if any, to be paid to the Participant for the Plan Year. The amount paid shall be the Individual Target Award adjusted to reflect both the results against the Participant's Performance Goals and the Participant's individual performance. All awards are subject to adjustment at the sole discretion of the Committee.
Individual Target Award amounts will be modified based on the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives by the Company and relevant units and/or sub-units. Performance results against objectives shall be reviewed and approved by the Committee in accordance with paragraph F.2 above, as applicable.
Any Individual Target Award, adjusted to reflect financial performance, may be further adjusted with the review and approval of the Committee to give full weight to the Participant's individual performance during the Plan Year.
The combination of any financial performance adjustment and individual performance adjustment may increase the amount paid under the Plan to a Participant for any Plan Year to as much as three times the Individual Target Award, and may reduce any amount payable to zero, subject to Article H.
Awards under the Plan to Participants who are Covered Employees shall be subject to preestablished Performance Goals as set forth in this Article H. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph G.3 above, the Committee shall not have discretion to modify the terms of awards to such Participants except as specifically set forth in this Article H.
At the beginning of a Plan Year, the Committee shall establish Individual Target Awards for such of the Participants who may be Covered Employees, payment of which shall be conditioned upon satisfaction of specific Performance Goals for the Plan Year established by the Committee in writing in advance of the Plan Year, or within such period as may be permitted by regulations issued under Section 162(m). The Performance Goals established by the Committee shall be based on one or more of the criteria set forth in paragraph F.1 above. The extent, if any, to which an award will be payable will be based upon the degree of achievement of the Performance Goals in accordance with a pre-established objective formula or standard as determined by the Committee. The application of the objective formula or standard to the Individual Target Award will determine whether the Covered Employee's award for the Plan Year is greater than, equal to or less than the Participant's Individual Target Award. To the extent that the minimum Performance Goals are satisfied or surpassed, and upon written certification by the Committee that the Performance Goals have been satisfied to a particular extent, payment of the award shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the Payment Date in accordance with the objective formula or standard applied to the Individual Target Award unless the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, to reduce or eliminate the payment to be made.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the maximum award payable to any Participant who is a Covered Employee for any Plan Year shall not exceed $6,000,000.
An award under the Plan shall be paid in a single sum to the Participant as soon as reasonably practicable after Payment Date, unless the Participant elects to defer his or her award pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company's Deferred Compensation Administration Plan II or any successor plan ("DCAP II") and in compliance with Section 409A of the Code. No awards may be deferred by a Participant under DCAP II unless he or she is an active employee of the Company on the date the award is paid or he or she retired after December 31 of such Plan Year.
No award shall be made to any Participant who is not an active employee of the Company on the Payment Date; provided, however, that the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion, may make pro-rata awards to Participants in circumstances that the Committee deems appropriate including, but not limited to, a Participant's death, disability, retirement or other termination of employment prior to the Payment Date. Any such pro-rated awards shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with Article G above after taking into account the portion of the Plan Year completed.
In the event of a Change in Control, the Company or any successor or surviving corporation shall pay to each Participant an award for the Plan Year in which the Change in Control occurs and for any previous Plan Year for which awards have been earned but not yet paid or deferred. Each such award shall be equal to the greatest of the following: (i) the Participant's Individual Target Award for the applicable Plan Year; (ii) the Participant's Individual Target Award for the applicable Plan Year adjusted based on the actual performance outcome for that Plan Year, provided, that the Committee may not invoke its discretionary authority to reduce the amount of such an award; or (iii) the average of awards earned and paid to (or deferred by) the Participant in the three (or such fewer number of years that the Participant has been eligible for such an award) completed Plan Years immediately preceding the applicable Plan Year. Such awards shall be paid by the Company or any successor or surviving corporation at such time as the awards otherwise would be payable under the Plan; provided, however, that if a Participant is terminated without Cause or terminates for Good Reason within twelve months after a Change in Control, then such Participant shall be paid his or her awards determined under this Article K, within thirty days of such termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any award determined pursuant to this Article K shall be reduced by any corresponding award payable under a Participant's individually negotiated agreement, if any.
Any other provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Committee determines that a Participant has engaged in any of the actions described below, then upon written notice from the Company to the Participant (i) the Participant shall not be eligible for any award for the year in which such notice is given or for the preceding year, if such award has not been paid as of the date of the notice, (ii) any payment of an award received by the Participant within twelve months prior to the date that the Company discovered that the Participant engaged in any action described below shall immediately be repaid to the Company by the Participant in cash (including amounts withheld pursuant to Article M) and (iii) any award deferred pursuant to Article I within twelve months prior to the date that the Company discovered that the Participant engaged in any action described below shall be forfeited immediately and shall not be distributed to the Participant under any circumstances.
The consequences described above shall apply if the Participant, either before or after termination of employment with the Company:
1. Discloses to others, or takes or uses for his or her own purpose or the purpose of others, any trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or know-how or any other proprietary information or intellectual property belonging to the Company and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment, whether or not they are the Participant's work product. Examples of such confidential information or trade secrets include, without limitation, customer lists, supplier lists, pricing and cost data, computer programs, delivery routes, advertising plans, wage and salary data, financial information, research and development plans, processes, equipment, product information and all other types and categories of information as to which the Participant knows or has reason to know that the Company intends or expects secrecy to be maintained; or
2. Fails to promptly return all documents and other tangible items belonging to the Company in the Participant's possession or control, including all complete or partial copies, recordings, abstracts, notes or reproductions of any kind made from or about such documents or information contained therein, upon termination of employment, whether pursuant to retirement or otherwise; or
3. Fails to provide the Company with at least thirty (30) days' written notice prior to directly or indirectly engaging in, becoming employed by, or rendering services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Company. As used herein, "business in competition" means any person, organization or enterprise which is engaged in or is about to become engaged in any line of business engaged in by the Company at the time of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company; or
4. Fails to inform any new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this section and of the Participant's continuing obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the Company and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment with the Company; or
5. Induces or attempts to induce, directly or indirectly, any of the Company's customers, employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Company, or to breach any contract with the Company, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract with, the Participant or any third party; or
6. Engages in conduct which is not in good faith and which disrupts, damages, impairs or interferes with the business, reputation or employees of the Company; or
7. Directly or indirectly engages in, becomes employed by, or renders services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Company, at any time during the twelve months following termination of employment with the Company.
The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in subsections 1 through 7 above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
Any provision of this Article L which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Article L.
Whenever the payment of an award is made, such payment shall be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements and authorized deductions.
Neither the Plan nor designation as a Plan Participant shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain employed by the Company. The Company reserves the right to terminate the employment of any employee at any time, with or without cause or for no cause, subject only to a written employment contract (if any).
The interest of any Participant under the Plan shall not be assignable either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law (except by designation of a beneficiary or beneficiaries to the extent allowed under DCAP II with respect to amounts deferred under Article I) and any attempted assignment shall be null, void and of no effect.
Amounts paid under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and each Participant shall be no more than an unsecured general creditor of the Company with no special or prior right to any assets of the Company for payment of any obligations hereunder. Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind for the benefit of any Participant, or create any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant with respect to any assets of the Company.
The Board of Directors may terminate or suspend the Plan at any time. The Committee may amend the Plan at any time; provided that (i) to extent required under Section 162(m), the Plan will not be amended without prior approval of the Company's stockholders, and (ii) no amendment shall retroactively and adversely affect the payment of any award previously made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment adopted following the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be effective if it (a) would reduce a Participant's Individual Target Award for the Plan Year in which the Change in Control occurs, (b) would reduce an award payable to a Participant based on the achievement of Performance Goals in the Plan Year before the Plan Year in which the Change in Control occurs, or (c) modify the provisions of this paragraph.
This Plan shall be binding on the Company and its successors or assigns.
The Plan is intended to comply with Section 162(m), and all provisions contained herein shall be construed and interpreted in a manner to so comply. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in the Plan shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of the Plan, but the Plan shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.
"" shall mean termination of the Participant's employment upon the Participant's willful engagement in misconduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company. No act, or failure to act, on the part of the Participant shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the Participant's action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.
Cause
"" A Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the events set forth in any of the following paragraphs shall occur:
Change in Control
a. any "person" (as defined in section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and as such term is modified in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), excluding the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a trustee or any fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company's stockholders in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
b. during any period of not more than two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors and any new members of the Board of Directors (other than a member designated by a "person" who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections a, c and d of this definition) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Board of Directors then still in office who either were members of the Board of Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
c. consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, which has been approved by the shareholders of the Company, other than (I) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (II) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
d. the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the holders of the Company's common stock immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions.
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation; provided, however, that the Committee shall consist solely of two or more "outside directors", in conformance with Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
"" shall mean McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation, including its subsidiaries and affiliates.
Company
"" shall mean an eligible Participant designated by the Committee who is, or is expected to be, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) for the Plan Year in which an award is payable hereunder.
Covered Employee
"" shall mean any of the following actions, if taken without the express written consent of the Participant:
Good Reason
a. any material change by the Company in the functions, duties, or responsibilities of the Participant, which change would cause such Participant's position with the Company to become of less dignity, responsibility, importance, or scope from the position and attributes that applied to the Participant immediately prior to the Change in Control;
b. any reduction in the Participant's base salary;
c. any material failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of any employment agreement between the Company and the Participant;
d. the requirement by the Company that the Participant be based at any office or location more than 25 miles from the office at which the Participant is based on the date immediately preceding the Change in Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Participant's responsibilities and commensurate with the amount of travel required of the Participant prior to the Change in Control; or
e. any failure by the Company to obtain the express assumption of this Plan by any successor or assign of the Company.
"" shall mean the target award established for each Participant under Article E, which shall be a percentage of the Participant's base salary or a fixed dollar amount, as determined by the Committee.
Individual Target Award
"" shall mean the Covered Employees and any other officer of the Company designated as part of the Officer Group by the Committee.
Officer Group
"" shall mean those employees specifically designated as Participants for a Plan Year under Article D.
Participants
"" shall mean the date following the conclusion of a Plan Year on which the Committee certifies that applicable Performance Goals have been satisfied and authorizes payment of corresponding awards.
Payment Date
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Article F hereof.
Performance Goals
"" shall mean the McKesson Corporation 2005 Management Incentive Plan.
Plan
"" shall mean the fiscal year of the Company.
Plan Year
"" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.
Section 162(m)
Executed effective as of , 2005.
     
McKESSON CORPORATION
By


