FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20061031161950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 31, 2006, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2007, ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the second quarter ended September 30, 2006, were $22.4 billion, an increase of 5% from $21.3 billion in the second quarter a year ago. Second quarter net income was $229 million, up 37% from $167 million a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was 75 cents, up 42% from 53 cents a year ago. Second quarter income from continuing operations was $200 million, up 32% from $152 million a year ago, excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was 66 cents, up 38% from 48 cents a year ago, excluding adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 31, 2006 
     Second quarter results included an after-tax loss from discontinued operations of $58 million or 19 cents per diluted share, primarily associated with the previously announced sale of McKesson's acute care medical-surgical business. Positive adjustments to Securities Litigation reserves in the second quarter results totaled $87 million or 28 cents per diluted share, primarily due to a previously announced credit to income tax expense.
 
     "Our goal is to execute well and deliver operating margin rate expansion across McKesson, and in the second quarter, operating profit growth exceeded revenue growth in all three segments," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues grew at the rate of market growth, adjusted for our mix of business, and operating margin rate expanded as we continued to provide additional value-adding products and services to customers and leverage our scale. In Medical-Surgical Solutions, we achieved solid revenue growth and margin expansion while beginning the process of reorganizing our business to focus on the higher-growth, higher-margin alternate site sector of the market. The need for information technology solutions to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare is driving strong market demand and revenue growth in Provider Technologies, and we continue to accelerate implementations, which drives increased profitability."
     During the second quarter of Fiscal 2007, McKesson repurchased $372 million of common stock and has $345 million remaining on the previous share repurchase authorization. Over the past six quarters, cumulative share repurchases exceed $1.6 billion. Cash flow from operations for the first six months was $685 million, and McKesson ended the quarter with a cash balance of $2.3 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 14%.
Segment Results
     Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 5% for the second quarter compared to the second quarter a year ago. The second quarter had one fewer selling day in U.S. pharmaceutical distribution compared to a year ago, which reduced U.S. Healthcare direct distribution and warehouse sales revenues by 1.5%. Canadian revenues increased 13%, including a positive currency impact of 8%.
     Pharmaceutical Solutions gross profit of $650 million was up 15% from $565 million in the second quarter a year ago, resulting from an increased mix of higher-margin generic products, stabilization of sell margin to customers and a $10 million anti-trust settlement credit.
 
     Pharmaceutical Solutions operating expenses were up 4% from the second quarter a year ago, below the growth rate of revenues, primarily due to continued overall cost control and efficiency programs. Operating profit of $324 million was up 29% compared to $252 million a year ago, reflecting the impact of the gross profit increase and expense leverage. Pharmaceutical Solutions operating profit as a percentage of revenues was 1.52% in the second quarter compared to 1.24% in the second quarter a year ago.
     "We continue to expand our offering of products and services to help our pharmacy customers operate more effectively and profitably," said Hammergren. "For example, over the past four months, there have been a number of major branded-to-generic drug conversions. We acted quickly to provide these new lower-cost generic drugs to our customers, benefiting them, consumers and payors."
     Medical-Surgical Solutions results for the first time reflect the sale of the company's acute care medical-surgical business, results of which are reported as a discontinued operation. Revenues from continuing operations of $580 million were up 14% in the second quarter compared to the second quarter a year ago, reflecting strong growth from our customer base comprising physician offices, clinics, surgery centers, nursing homes and home healthcare, and from the acquisition of Sterling Medical in the first quarter. Operating profit in the quarter was up 15% to $23 million. Operating profit as a percentage of revenues was 3.97% in the second quarter, up from 3.94% in the second quarter a year ago.
     In Provider Technologies, revenues for the second quarter were $440 million, up 22% compared to the second quarter a year ago. Software and software systems revenues increased 41%, driven by continued strong demand for clinical software, imaging solutions and automation systems, and more rapid installations.
 
     Operating expenses were up 26% in the quarter due primarily to previously disclosed acquisitions, investments in new product development and sales force expansion. Operating profit in the quarter was up 27% to $33 million. Operating margin rate was 7.50% for the second quarter compared to 7.22% a year ago.
     "We continue to have strong revenue growth in Provider Technologies, reflecting market demand, the market's response to the value of our solutions and our focus on reducing time to installation," Hammergren said. "Operating profit was up even more strongly than revenues, an especially impressive performance as we ramp up investments to increase market penetration and drive future growth. We plan to continue to invest in R&D, sales expansion and our promising physician office and consumer-directed healthcare solutions to take advantage of the positive trends in the market and our favorable position."
Outlook
     "I'm very pleased with our results for the year-to-date and the momentum we take into the remainder of the year," Hammergren said. "We are focused on creating additional shareholder value through strong operating performance combined with a balanced, disciplined use of capital, including targeted acquisitions, investments to drive growth and profit margin expansion, share repurchases and dividends."
     "Based on our year-to-date results and the continued progress across our business, we are raising our guidance. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007, McKesson expects to earn between $2.65 and $2.75 per fully diluted share from continuing operations excluding adjustments to our Securities Litigation reserves."
Corporate and Financial Highlights
     The second quarter of Fiscal 2007 included the following:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: adverse resolution of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including changes in government regulations and the impact of potential future mandated benefits; competition; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental and manufacturers' efforts to regulate or control the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in the availability or pricing of generic drugs; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's internally used or externally sold software and software systems, or the slowing or deferral of demand or extension of the sales cycle for external software products; continued access to third-party licenses for software and the
 
patent positions of the company's proprietary software; the company's ability to meet performance requirements in its disease management programs; the adequacy of insurance to cover liability or loss claims; new or revised tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to foreign operations; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 16 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 173-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


