FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20060126160601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 40.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 26, 2006, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2006, ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)   Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the company's third quarter ended December 31, 2005, were $22.6 billion, an increase of 9% over the prior year. Third quarter net income was $193 million or 61 cents per diluted share, compared to $144 million or 49 cents per diluted share excluding an after-tax securities litigation charge of $810 million in the third quarter a year ago. Including the securities litigation charge, in the third quarter last year McKesson had a net loss of $666 million or $2.26 per basic share.
SAN FRANCISCO, January 26, 2006 
     The quarter's results include a $37 million pre-tax gain in Pharmaceutical Solutions from a previously disclosed anti-trust settlement and a $15 million pre-tax charge in Medical-Surgical Solutions to expense pre-payments associated with a software product licensed from a third party.
     "McKesson had an outstanding quarter, driven by strong operating results in our Pharmaceutical Solutions and Provider Technologies segments," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
     Operating cash flow remained strong at $1.48 billion year-to-date. The company repurchased $290 million of stock during the quarter, leaving $129 million remaining on a share repurchase program authorized in December 2005. This week, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $250 million share repurchase program.
     "Year-to-date, we have spent $574 million on acquisitions, $579 million to repurchase shares and $55 million to pay dividends, a total of $1.2 billion of capital deployed on a mix of value-enhancing strategies designed to deliver short and long-term benefits to our shareholders," Hammergren said. "As the pending $960 million consolidated class action settlement is approved, we plan to fund the payment from cash, as previously disclosed."
Segment Results
     For the quarter, Pharmaceutical Solutions revenues were up 9%, reflecting new and expanded U.S. distribution agreements, revenues from the second-quarter acquisition of D&K Healthcare Resources (D&K) and revenue growth in Canadian distribution operations, impacted in part by slowed growth among McKesson's customer base. Operating profit increased 26%, including the $37 million anti-trust settlement, without which operating profit would be up 11%.
     Gross profit was up 25%, reflecting the anti-trust settlement, an increased mix of higher-margin generic products, stronger relationships with manufacturers and stabilization of sell margin to customers, offset by a lower LIFO credit of $10 million in the quarter compared to $20 million in the third quarter a year ago.
     Sales growth for McKesson's proprietary One Stop generics program once again exceeded the growth rate for branded pharmaceuticals, and was up 25% in the quarter. "Between $55 and $60 billion worth of branded drugs face patent challenges and/or patent expirations over the next two years, which should give rise to the launch of numerous generic alternatives," Hammergren noted. "These generic conversions, with their higher margins compared to the branded predecessor, should have a positive impact on segment earnings."
 
     Operating profit margin rate increased 20 basis points to 1.43%. The gross profit increase in the quarter was partially offset by increases in operating expenses, including those of D&K. "Our plan to integrate the D&K operations and deliver operating efficiencies is well underway," Hammergren said. "We continue to believe that its results should be accretive to earnings beginning next fiscal year."
     Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues were up 11%, driven by strong growth among alternate site customers. Operating profit was down 67%, to $8 million, primarily driven by the $15 million charge.
     In Provider Technologies, revenues were up 21%. Software and software systems revenues increased 38%, driven by continued strong demand for clinical and imaging software solutions and automation systems and increased implementations. McKesson continues to improve its implementation process, which is reducing the time it takes to install clinical products. Operating profit was up 36% to $38 million.
     "McKesson's market momentum is strong," Hammergren said. "We continue to grow sales beyond our historical base of community hospital customers. As a result of our new agreement with Triad Hospitals, McKesson now has a significant software and systems presence in all five of the nation's largest private hospital organizations."
     "Our product offering is now leading the industry. We are the clear leader in the crucial area of medication management technology to prevent drug errors. Our medication safety solutions are today scanning 1.2 million bedside administrations weekly, preventing 96,000 errors each week. More broadly, McKesson had 20 products ranked in the top 3 for their categories in the 2005 KLAS year-end report, up from 12 a year ago. It is clear that McKesson is well-positioned for growth based on this product leadership, the market's response to our offering and the increasing demand we are seeing for healthcare information technology."
 
Outlook
     "McKesson's strong performance for the first three quarters of the year gives us good momentum going into our fourth quarter. Based on our positive year-to-date results and the continued progress in our business, we are raising our guidance for the year. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, McKesson now expects to earn $2.41 to $2.46 per diluted share from continuing operations, excluding any adjustments to the securities litigation reserve," Hammergren concluded.
     Based on earning $1.76 per diluted share from continuing operations through the first three quarters excluding the $35 million first-quarter after-tax adjustment to the securities litigation reserve, McKesson expects to earn 65 to 70 cents per diluted share in the fourth quarter.
     The guidance range is based on a tax rate for continuing operations for Fiscal 2006 of approximately 35%. The EPS range also assumes approximately 315 million shares used in the dilution calculation.
Year-to-Date Results
     For the first three quarters, including securities litigation charges and discontinued operations, McKesson had net income of $531 million or $1.69 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $416 million or $1.42 per basic share a year ago. Excluding securities litigation charges and including discontinued operations, for the first three quarters of Fiscal 2006, McKesson had net income of $566 million or $1.80 per diluted share compared to net income of $394 million or $1.33 per diluted share a year ago.
 
Corporate Highlights
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements", within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximates", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: the resolution or outcome of pending shareholder litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including the impact of potential future mandated benefits; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or
 
practices; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's software and software system products, or the slowing or deferral of demand for these products; the company's ability to success identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); foreign currency fluctuations; and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Shareholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) is a Fortune 15 healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. Over the course of its 172-year history, McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at www.mckesson.com.
CONTACT: Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418 (Investors and Financial Press) larry.kurtz@mckesson.com Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023 (Business and Trade Media) kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


