FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20060117182427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On January 11, 2006, Richard F. Syron tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation ("McKesson"). Mr. Syron indicated that his decision to resign was not the result of any disagreement with the company. Mr. Syron had been a director of McKesson since 2002.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
In connection with the resignation of Richard F. Syron, the Board of Directors of McKesson Corporation unanimously approved by written consent an amendment to Section 2 of Article III of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of McKesson. The amendment, which became effective as of January 12, 2006, changes the authorized number of directors to nine. Prior to this amendment, the authorized number of directors was ten. The text of Section 2 of Article III of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of McKesson, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number 3.2 Text of Amended Section 2 of Article III of the Amended and Restated By- Laws of McKesson Corporation. effective as of January 12, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Section 2.
Number and Term of Office; Removal
.
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by these By-Laws but in no event shall be less than three (3). Until these By-Laws are further amended, the number of directors shall be nine (9). The directors shall be divided into three classes. Each such class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors, and any remaining directors shall be included within such group or groups as the Board of Directors shall designate. At the initial annual meeting of stockholders in 1994, a class of directors shall be elected for a one-year term, a class of directors for a two-year term and a class of directors for a three-year term. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, beginning in 1995, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, but in no case shall a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. A director may be removed from office for cause only and, subject to such removal, death, resignation, retirement or disqualification, shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and qualify. No alteration, amendment or repeal of these By-Laws shall be effective to shorten the term of any director holding office at the time of such alteration, amendment or repeal, to permit any such director to be removed without cause, or to increase the number of directors in any class or in the aggregate from that existing at the time of such alteration, amendment or repeal until the expiration of the terms of office of all directors then holding office, unless such alteration, amendment or repeal has been approved by either the holders of all shares of stock entitled to vote thereon or by a vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The provisions of this Section 2 shall not apply to directors governed by Section 15 of this ARTICLE III.


