FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20071030162500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 30, 2007, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") announced via press release the Company's preliminary results for the second quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), but shall not be deemed "filed" with the Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 30, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK) today reported that revenues for the second fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 were $24.5 billion compared to $22.4 billion a year ago. Second-quarter earnings per diluted share was 83 cents compared to 75 cents per diluted share a year ago. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was 82 cents in the second quarter compared to 66 cents in the second quarter a year ago, excluding adjustments to the Securities Litigation reserves in both periods.
SAN FRANCISCO, October 30, 2007 
     "McKesson continues to have positive momentum across the company, reflecting our leadership in dynamic and growing segments of the healthcare services market," said John H. Hammergren, chairman and chief executive officer. "In our Distribution Solutions segment, our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution revenues grew 9%, reflecting continued solid market growth and growth in our customer base. Our segment operating profit margin expanded four basis points over last year, an impressive performance considering that the second quarter a year ago included the positive effects of launches of several major generic drugs, an antitrust settlement and a LIFO credit, none of which recurred during the second quarter this year. Our Technology Solutions segment delivered strong revenue and operating profit growth, driven primarily by the integration of our Per-Se Technologies acquisition, which is going very well."
 
     Year-to-date, McKesson had cash flow from operations of $1.3 billion. McKesson ended the quarter with cash of $2.5 billion and a gross debt-to-capital ratio of 23%.
     The company continues to execute a flexible, multi-faceted capital deployment strategy designed to create additional stockholder value. During the first half of Fiscal 2008, McKesson repurchased $684 million of common stock, paid $36 million in dividends, spent $161 million on capitalized expenditures and capitalized software and invested $51 million in acquisitions. As previously announced, the Board of Directors approved an additional $1 billion share repurchase authorization, for a total current outstanding authorization of $1.32 billion. After the quarter closed, McKesson completed its previously announced acquisition of Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) for approximately $575 million, including the assumption of debt.
     "Based on our positive momentum and even including two quarters of marginal dilution from the results of the OTN business we acquired, we are raising our outlook and now expect that McKesson should earn between $3.22 and $3.37 per diluted share for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008," Hammergren concluded.
Segment Results
     Distribution Solutions revenues were up 9% for the quarter. U.S. pharmaceutical direct distribution revenues grew 9% for the quarter. Warehouse sales increased 5% in the quarter. Canadian revenues increased 15% for the quarter, including a favorable currency impact of 8%, and medical-surgical distribution revenues were up 11% for the quarter.
 
     Distribution Solutions gross profit of $848 million was up 10% from $769 million in the second quarter a year ago, although gross profit in the second quarter a year ago included the positive impacts of an antitrust settlement of $10 million and a LIFO credit of $10 million. The increase in gross profit for the second quarter this year was due primarily to the impact of our agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and an improved mix of higher-margin products and services, including profit growth in our proprietary generics programs.
     Distribution Solutions operating profit of $366 million was up 12% from $328 million in the second quarter a year ago. Operating margin for the quarter was 1.54% compared to 1.50% a year ago.
     In Technology Solutions, revenues were up 36% for the quarter, reflecting the impact of Per-Se revenues and continued growth in implementations of software and imaging solutions for hospitals, clinics and physician offices. Services revenues were up 52% and software and software systems revenues were up 4%.
     Technology Solutions operating profit in the quarter was $66 million, up 27% from $52 million a year ago. Operating margin was 9.27% for the quarter compared to 9.90% a year ago. Technology Solutions operating expenses were up 31% for the quarter, reflecting the inclusion of Per-Se operating expenses, continued investment in new product development and the impact of increased FAS 123R expense in this segment, which was $11 million in the second quarter compared to $5 million in the second quarter a year ago.
 
Second-Quarter Corporate and Financial Highlights
     The quarter included the following additional major highlights:
 
 
Risk Factors
     Except for historical information contained in this press release, matters discussed may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "may", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates" or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; however, the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in the company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and include, but are not limited to: adverse resolution of pending securities litigation regarding the 1999 restatement of our historical financial statements; the changing U.S. healthcare environment, including changes in government regulations and the impact of potential future mandated benefits; competition; changes in private and governmental reimbursement or in the delivery systems for healthcare products and services; governmental and manufacturers' efforts to regulate or control the pharmaceutical supply chain; changes in government
 
regulations relating to patient confidentiality standards; changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers' pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices; changes in the availability or pricing of branded and generic drugs; changes in customer mix; substantial defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases by large customers; challenges in integrating and implementing the company's internally used or externally sold software and software systems, or the slowing or deferral of demand or extension of the sales cycle for external software products; continued access to third-party licenses for software and the patent positions of the company's proprietary software; the company's ability to meet performance requirements in its disease management programs; the adequacy of insurance to cover liability or loss claims; changes in circumstances that could impair our goodwill or intangible assets; new or revised tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations or disruptions to foreign operations; the company's ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate strategic acquisitions; changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and general economic conditions. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information or otherwise.
     . Stockholders are encouraged to review SEC filings and more information about McKesson, which are located on the company's website.
A Webcast of the company's regular conference call to review financial results with the financial community is available through McKesson's website, www.mckesson.com, live at 5 PM ET today and on replay afterwards
About McKesson
     McKesson Corporation (NYSE: MCK), ranked 18 in the 2007 Fortune 500, is a healthcare services and information technology company dedicated to helping its customers deliver high-quality healthcare by reducing costs, streamlining processes and improving the quality and safety of patient care. McKesson is the longest-operating company in healthcare today, and will mark 175 years of continuous operations in 2008. Over the course of its history,
th
 
McKesson has grown by providing pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply management across the spectrum of care; healthcare information technology for hospitals, physicians, homecare and payors; hospital and retail pharmacy automation; and services for manufacturers and payors designed to improve outcomes for patients. For more information, visit us at .
www.mckesson.com
          CONTACT:           Larry Kurtz, 415-983-8418           (Investors and Financial Press)           larry.kurtz@mckesson.com           Kate Rohrbach 415-983-9023           (Business and Trade Media)           kate.rohrbach@mckesson.com
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Schedule II
 
 
Schedule III
 
Schedule IV


