FILE:MCK/MCK-8K-20070305091523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 28, 2007, McKesson Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the Underwriters $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% Notes due March 1, 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.70% Notes due March 1, 2017 (the "2017 Notes" and, together with the 2013 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated March 5, 2007, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented by an Officer's Certificate, dated March 5, 2007 (the "Officer's Certificate").
The 2013 Notes will bear interest at the rate of 5.25% per year. The 2017 Notes will bear interest at the rate of 5.70% per year. Interest on the Notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2007. The 2013 Notes will mature on March 1, 2013 and the 2017 Notes will mature on March 1, 2017. Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, the Company may redeem the Notes for cash in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, prior to maturity, at redemption prices that include accrued and unpaid interest and a make-whole premium, as specified in the Indenture and Officer's Certificate. The Indenture limits the ability of the Company to incur liens or enter into sale and leaseback transactions, in each case subject to a cure period, or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. The Notes will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and will rank equally with all of the Company's existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding. The Indenture also contains customary event of default provisions. In the event of the occurrence of both (1) a change of control of the Company and (2) a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating by each of Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services within a specified period, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.
The public offering price of the 2013 Notes was 99.580% of the principal amount, and the public offering price of the 2017 Notes was 99.835% of the principal amount. The Company expects to receive net proceeds (before expenses) of approximately $990.7 million and to use such net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay borrowings outstanding under the interim credit facility that the Company entered into to fund a portion of the merger consideration for the Company's recent acquisition of Per-Se Technologies, Inc.
The Notes were offered and sold pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-124921) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on August 4, 2005. The Company has filed with the SEC a prospectus supplement, dated February 28, 2007, together with the accompanying prospectus, dated August 4, 2005, relating to the offering and sale of the Notes.
For a complete description of the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, the Officer's Certificate and the Notes, please refer to the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, the Officer's Certificate, the form of 2013 Note and the form of 2017 Note, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, respectively.
Some of the Underwriters and their affiliates have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, investment banking, commercial banking and other commercial dealings with the Company in the ordinary course of business. In particular, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. acted as financial advisor to the Company in connection with the acquisition of Per-Se Technologies, Inc., and affiliates of Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and affiliates of certain of the other Underwriters served as agents and/or lenders under the interim credit facility being repaid with the net proceeds from the offering. In addition,
Table of Contents
affiliates of certain of the Underwriters are participants in the Company's revolving credit facility and have received customary fees, commissions or other payments for these transactions.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
 
February 28, 2007
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
       c/o  Banc of America Securities LLC
9 West 57th Street New York, NY 10019
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.25% Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.70% Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes" and, together with the 2013 Notes, the "Notes"). Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture to be dated as of the Closing Date (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to an officer's certificate (the "Officer's Certificate") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the "DTC Agreement"), between the Company and the Depositary.
     The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-124921), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "Registration Statement." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the
 
Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "Execution Time") by the parties hereto. The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 1:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on February 28, 2007 (the "Initial Sale Time"). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall be deemed to be the electronically transmitted copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
     Representations and Warranties of the Company
Section 1.
     The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (including the filing with the Commission of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 2006 (the "Annual Report on Form 10-K")) became effective and as of the date hereof the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act,
 
and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein (it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof) and to those parts of the Registration Statement that constitute the Statement of Eligibility (Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee.
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
     (b) The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated February 27, 2007, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Schedule B hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
     (c) . The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement , the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and none of such documents contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material
Incorporated Documents
 
respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (d) . At the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) under the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 under the Securities Act, and as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
     (e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an ineligible issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein that has not been superseded or modified. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
     (g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (as defined below) or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
 
     (h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
     (i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
     (j) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed and delivered by the Company and assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
     (k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
     (l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
     (m) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change").
No Material Adverse Change
     (n) Deloitte & Touche LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended 2004, 2005 and 2006 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
 
     (o) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
     (p) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, earnings, management, business, properties, results of operations or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (a "Material Adverse Effect"). McKesson Information Solutions Holdings Limited, an Ireland corporation, is the Company's sole significant subsidiary, as defined by Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act (the "Significant Subsidiary"), and has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as presently conducted.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Significant Subsidiary.
     (q) The execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes (collectively, the "Operative Instruments"), and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated thereby, including the issuance and sale of the Notes, (A) will not violate or conflict with or result in any contravention of any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), or (B) conflict with the charter or by-laws of the Company, or (C) constitute a violation of, or a breach or default under the laws of any agreement, contract, bond, indenture or other instrument binding upon the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (D) violate or conflict with, or result in any contravention of, any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, except for a violation, conflict or contravention which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (E) do not and will not result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the terms of any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective properties is bound, except for any liens, charges or encumbrances which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and (F) do not require any consent, approval, authorization or order of, or qualification with, any governmental body or agency, except such as may be required
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
 
by the securities or Blue Sky laws of the various states, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the securities laws of any jurisdiction outside the United States in which the Notes are offered.
     (r) There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (i) which are required to be described in the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and are not so described or (ii) which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, or materially affect the power or ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Operative Instruments or to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or the Operative Instruments. There are no contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or Prospectus or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement that are not described or filed as required.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
     (s) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to the Company's knowledge, the Company or its subsidiaries own or possess a valid right to use all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") used by the Company or its subsidiaries in, and material to, the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights.
     (t) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has all necessary consents, authorizations, approvals, orders, certificates and permits (collectively, "Permits") of and from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all federal, state, provincial, local and other governmental authorities, all self-regulatory organizations and all courts and other tribunals, to own, lease, license and use its properties and assets and to conduct its business in the manner described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except to the extent that the failure to obtain or file could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Permits which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
     (u) The Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or regulated wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (iii) are in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or approval, except where such noncompliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals or
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
 
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such permits, licenses or approvals would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (v) . There are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties) which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, except as otherwise disclosed or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package.
Environmental Costs
     (w) The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Tax Law Compliance.
     (x) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company.
     (y) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
     (z) . The Company has complied in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
     (aa) The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The internal control over financial reporting of the Company is effective.
Controls.
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
     
Section 2.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Shares.
     (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to
The Notes.
 
the conditions herein set forth, each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite its name on Schedule A, plus any additional principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to Section 10 of this Agreement, at a purchase price of 98.955% of the principal amount of the 2013 Notes and 99.185% of the principal amount of the 2017 Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
     (b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP, 71 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on March 5, 2007, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date.
     (c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
     (d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
     It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The Notes shall be issued in book-entry only form and shall be represented by one or more global certificates in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
     
Section 3.
Covenants of the Company.
     The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
     (a) The Company will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 under the Securities Act was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
     (b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
     (c) The Company will deliver, upon request, to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
     (d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
 
     (e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
     (f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
     (g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
     (h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
     (i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
 
     (j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or            contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any debt securities of or guaranteed by the Company which are substantially similar to the Notes.
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
     (k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet, in a form approved by the Representatives and included in Exhibit A to this Agreement, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet"). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
     (l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Schedule B to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
     (m) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
     The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all
Section 4.
Payment of Expenses.
 
expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes in accordance with Section 3(f) for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the NASD of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
     The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Section 5.
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
          a) . The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and on the Closing Date no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B under the Securities Act).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
          b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
 
Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
          c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
          d) If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Notes has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection.
          e) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
     (i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change; and
     (ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
          f) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinion of Laureen E. Seeger, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect set forth in Exhibit B.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
          g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, special counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect set forth in Exhibit C.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
          h) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
          i) On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or a Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
 
     (i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the knowledge of such officers, threatened by the Commission;
     (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
     (iii) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
          j) DocumentsOn or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional
.
          If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
     If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 10 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges) that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes.
Section 6.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
     This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Section 7.
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
     
Section 8.
Indemnification.
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by Banc of America Securities LLC) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the fifth paragraph concerning the terms of the offering by the Underwriters, the third sentence of the eighth paragraph regarding market making by the Underwriters, the ninth and tenth paragraphs concerning short sales, stabilizing transactions and purchases to cover short positions created by the Underwriters, in each case, under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
     (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
     (d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
     If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information
Section 9.
Contribution.
 
supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
     If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the
Section 10.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
 
Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
     Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission, The New York Stock Exchange or the Pacific Exchange, Inc., or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market, The New York Stock Exchange or the Pacific Exchange, Inc. shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Section 11.
Termination of this Agreement.
     . . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their
Section 12
No Fiduciary Duty
 
respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Section 13.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
     All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Section 14.
Notices.
     If to the Representatives:
Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57 Street New York, NY 10019 Facsimile: 646-313-4803 Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
th
and
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC 301 South College Street Charlotte, NC 28288 Facsimile: 704-383-0353 Attention: Legal
 
with a copy to:
Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP 71 South Wacker Drive Chicago, IL 60606 Facsimile: 312-706-8106 Attention: Edward S. Best
     If to the Company:
McKesson Corporation One Post Street San Francisco, CA 94104 Facsimile: 415-983-8826 Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 300 South Grand Avenue, Suite 3400 Los Angeles, CA 90071 Facsimile: 213-687-5600 Attention: Gregg A. Noel
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
     This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Section 15.
Successors.
     The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Section 16.
Partial Unenforceability.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
Section 17.
Governing Law Provisions.
 
     This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 18.
General Provisions.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
Acting as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A.
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated February 28, 2007

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
          Provisions of Trust Indenture Act (as defined herein) and Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007, between MCKESSON CORPORATION and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee:
 
 
 
 
 
 
          THIS INDENTURE, dated as of March 5, 2007, by and between MCKESSON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"),
          WHEREAS, the Issuer has duly authorized the issue from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued in one or more series (the "Securities") up to such principal amount or amounts as may from time to time be authorized in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
          WHEREAS, the Issuer has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide, among other things, for the authentication, delivery and administration of the Securities; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;
          NOW, THEREFORE:
          In consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders thereof, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities and of the coupons, if any, appertaining thereto as follows:
          The following terms (except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise clearly requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act"), or the definitions of which in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), are referred to in the Trust Indenture Act, including terms defined therein by reference to the Securities Act (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act and in the Securities Act as in effect from time to time. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and the term "generally accepted accounting principles" means such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the time of any computation unless a different time shall be specified with respect to such series of Securities as provided for in Section 2.3. The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular.
SECTION 1.1 CERTAIN TERMS DEFINED.
 
          "Affiliate" has the same meaning as given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act or any successor provision.
          "Authenticating Agent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.15.
          "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper (which, in the case of The City of New York, will, if practicable, be (Eastern Edition), in the case of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the "United Kingdom"), will, if practicable, be (London Edition) and, in the case of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ("Luxembourg"), will, if practicable, be the ) published in an official or common language of the country of publication customarily published at least once a day for at least five days in each calendar week and of general circulation in The City of New York, the United Kingdom or Luxembourg, as applicable. If it shall be impractical in the opinion of the Trustee to make any publication of any notice required hereby in an Authorized Newspaper, any publication or other notice in lieu thereof which is made or given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient publication of such notice.
The Wall Street Journal
The Financial Times
Luxemburger Wort
          "Board of Directors" means either the Board of Directors of the Issuer or any committee of such Board duly authorized to act on its behalf.
          "Board Resolution" means a copy of one or more resolutions, certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer to have been duly adopted or consented to by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect, and delivered to the Trustee.
          "Business Day" means, with respect to any Security, a day that is not a day on which banking institutions in the city (or in any of the cities, if more than one) in which amounts are payable, as specified in the form of such Security, are authorized or required by any applicable law or regulation to be closed.
          "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any corporation, any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase (other than convertible or exchangeable indebtedness that is not itself otherwise capital stock), warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests (however designated) in stock issued by that corporation.
          "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties on such date.
          "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, as of the date of this Indenture, located at 700 S. Flower Street, Suite 500, Los Angeles, California 90017, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
          "Coupon" means any interest coupon appertaining to an Unregistered Security.
          "Covenant Defeasance" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(C).
 
          "Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in the form of one or more Registered Global Securities, the Person designated as Depositary by the Issuer pursuant to Section 2.3 until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any such series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Registered Global Securities of that series.
          "Dollar" or "$" means the coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
          "Equity Interests" means Capital Stock or partnership, participation or membership interests and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock or partnership, participation or membership interests (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock or partnership, participation or membership interests).
          "Event of Default" means any event or condition specified as such in Section 5.1.
          "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          "Fair Value" when used with respect to any Voting Equity Interests of the Issuer means the fair value as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Issuer.
          "Foreign Currency" means any coin, currency, currency unit or composite currency, including, without limitation, the euro, issued by the government of one or more countries, other than the United States of America or by any internationally recognized union, confederation or association of such governments.
          "Holder," "Holder of Securities," "Securityholder" or any other similar terms mean (a) in the case of any Registered Security, the person in whose name such Security is registered in the security register kept by the Issuer for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof, and (b) in the case of any Unregistered Security, the bearer of such Security, or any Coupon appertaining thereto, as the case may be.
          "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and delivered or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented or both, and shall include the forms and terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated hereunder, , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to one or more series of Securities for which such person is trustee, this instrument as originally executed and delivered or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented or both, and shall include the forms and terms of those particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated hereunder, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted.
provided
 
          "IRS" means the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Department of the Treasury, or any successor entity.
          "Issuer" means (except as otherwise provided in Article IX) McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and, subject to Article IX, its successors and assigns.
          "Issuer Order" means a written statement, request or order of the Issuer signed in its name by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president, any vice president or the treasurer of the Issuer.
          "Judgment Currency" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.12.
          "Non-U.S. Person" means any person that is not a "U.S. person" as such term is defined in Rule 902 of the Securities Act.
          "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president or any vice president or the treasurer of the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee. Each such certificate shall comply with Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and include the statements provided for in Section 11.5.
          "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel who may be an employee of the Issuer. Each such opinion shall comply with Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act and include the statements provided for in Section 11.5.
          "Original Issue Date" of any Security (or portion thereof) means the earlier of (a) the date of such Security or (b) the date of any Security (or portion thereof) for which such Security was issued (directly or indirectly) on registration of transfer, exchange or substitution.
          "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.1.
          "Outstanding" (except as otherwise provided in Section 7.4), when used with reference to Securities, means, subject to the provisions of Section 7.4, as of any particular time, all Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except:
     (a) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
     (b) Securities, or portions thereof, for the payment or redemption of which moneys or U.S. Government Obligations (as provided for in Section 10.1) in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent (other than the Issuer) or shall have been set aside, segregated and held in trust by the Issuer for the Holders of such Securities (if the Issuer shall act as its own paying agent), provided, that if such Securities, or portions thereof, are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as herein provided, or provisions satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and
 
     (c) Securities which shall have been paid or in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.9 (except with respect to any such Security as to which proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that such Security is held by a person in whose hands such Security is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Issuer).
          In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any or all series have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.1.
          "Periodic Offering" means an offering of Securities of a series from time to time, the specific terms of which Securities, including, without limitation, the rate or rates of interest, if any, thereon, the stated maturity or maturities thereof and the redemption provisions, if any, with respect thereto, are to be determined by the Issuer or its agents upon the issuance of such Securities.
          "Person" means any individual, corporation, business trust, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
          "principal" whenever used with reference to the Securities or any Security or any portion thereof, shall be deemed to include "and premium, if any," provided, however, that such inclusion of premium, if any, shall under no circumstances result in the double counting of such premium for the purpose of any calculation required hereunder.
          "record date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.7.
          "Registered Global Security" means a Security evidencing all or a part of a series of Registered Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series in accordance with Section 2.4, and bearing the legend prescribed in Section 2.4 and any other legend required by the Depositary for such series.
          "Registered Security" means any Security registered on the Security register of the Issuer.
          "Required Currency" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.12.
          "Responsible Officer" when used with respect to the Trustee means any vice president (whether or not designated by numbers or words added before or after the title "Vice President"), any assistant trust officer, any assistant vice president, any assistant treasurer, or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
 
          "Security" or "Securities" (except as otherwise provided in Section 7.4) has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture, or, as the case may be, Securities that have been authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
          "Senior Indebtedness", when used with respect to the Subordinated Securities of any series, shall have the meaning established pursuant to Subsection 2.3(9) with respect to the Subordinated Securities of such series.
          "Senior Securities" means Securities other than Subordinated Securities.
          "Subordinated Securities" means Securities that by the terms established pursuant to Subsection 2.3(9) are subordinated in right of payment to Senior Indebtedness of the Issuer.
          "Subordination Provisions", when used with respect to the Subordinated Securities of any series, shall have the meaning established pursuant to Subsection 2.3(9) with respect to the Subordinated Securities of such series.
          "Subsidiary," with respect to any Person, means (i) a corporation a majority of whose Voting Equity Interests is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person, by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, (ii) any other Person (other than a corporation) in which such Person, one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination thereof has at least majority ownership interest, or (iii) a partnership in which such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person is, at the time, a general partner.
          "Trustee" means the Person identified as "Trustee" in the first paragraph hereof and, subject to the provisions of Article VI, shall also include any successor trustee. "Trustee" shall also mean or include each Person who is then a trustee hereunder, and, if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
          "Unregistered Security" means any Security other than a Registered Security.
          "U.S. Government Obligations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(A).
          "Voting Equity Interests" means Equity Interests which at the time are entitled to vote in the election of, as applicable, directors, members or partners generally; , that, for the purposes hereof, Equity Interests that carry only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered Voting Equity Interests whether or not such event shall have happened.
provided
          "Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity on a series of securities, calculated at the time of issuance of such series, or, if applicable, at the most recent
 
redetermination of interest on such series, and calculated in accordance with accepted financial practice.
          The Securities of each series and the Coupons, if any, to be attached thereto shall be substantially in such form (not inconsistent with this Indenture) as shall be established by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions (as set forth in a Board Resolution or, to the extent established pursuant to but not set forth in a Board Resolution, an Officer's Certificate detailing such establishment) or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have imprinted or otherwise reproduced thereon such legend or legends or endorsements, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, as may be required to comply with any law or with any rules or regulations pursuant thereto, or with any rules of any securities exchange or to conform to general usage, all as may be determined by the officers executing such Securities and Coupons, if any, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities and Coupons.
SECTION 2.1 FORMS GENERALLY.
          The definitive Securities and Coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities and Coupons, if any, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities and Coupons, if any.
          The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the following form:
SECTION 2.2 FORM OF TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION.
          "This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
          If at any time there shall be an Authenticating Agent appointed with respect to any series of Securities, then the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to be borne by the Securities of each such series shall be substantially as follows:
          "This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
SECTION 2.3 AMOUNT UNLIMITED; ISSUABLE IN SERIES.
          The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions (and to the extent established pursuant to but not set forth in a Board Resolution, in an Officer's Certificate detailing such establishment) or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the initial issuance of Securities of any series,
     (1) the designation of the Securities of the series, including CUSIP numbers, which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from the Securities of all other series, and which may be part of a series of Securities previously issued;
     (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.8, 2.9, 2.11, 8.5 or 12.3);
     (3) if other than Dollars, the Foreign Currency or Foreign Currencies in which the Securities of the series are denominated;
     (4) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
     (5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, on which such interest shall be payable, the terms and conditions of any deferral of interest and the additional interest, if any, thereon, the right, if any, of the Issuer to extend the interest payment periods and the duration of the extensions and (in the case of Registered Securities) the date or dates on which a record shall be taken for the determination of Holders to whom interest is payable and/or the method by which such rate or rates or date or dates shall be determined;
     (6) the place or places where and the manner in which, the principal of and any interest on Securities of the series shall be payable, if other than as provided in Section 3.2;
     (7) the right, if any, of the Issuer to redeem Securities, in whole or in part, at its option and the period or periods within which, or the date or dates on which, the price
 
or prices at which and any terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be so redeemed, pursuant to any sinking fund or otherwise;
     (8) the obligation, if any, of the Issuer to redeem, purchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which and the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, and any terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
     (9) if the Securities of such series are Subordinated Securities, the terms pursuant to which the Securities of such series will be made subordinate in right of payment to Senior Indebtedness and the definition of such Senior Indebtedness with respect to such series (in the absence of an express statement to the effect that the Securities of such series are subordinate in right of payment to all such Senior Indebtedness, the Securities of such series shall not be subordinate to Senior Indebtedness and shall not constitute Subordinated Securities); and, in the event that the Securities of such series are Subordinated Securities, such Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate or supplemental indenture, as the case may be, establishing the terms of such series shall expressly state which articles, sections or other provisions thereof constitute the "Subordination Provisions" with respect to the Securities of such series;
     (10) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof in the case of Registered Securities, or $1,000 and $5,000 in the case of Unregistered Securities, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
     (11) the percentage of the principal amount at which the Securities will be issued, and, if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof and the terms and conditions of any acceleration;
     (12) if other than the coin, currency or currencies in which the Securities of the series are denominated, the coin, currency or currencies in which payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series shall be payable, including composite currencies or currency units;
     (13) if the principal of or interest on the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Issuer or a Holder thereof, in a coin or currency other than that in which the Securities are denominated, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made;
     (14) if the amount of payments of principal of and interest on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index or formula based on a coin, currency, composite currency or currency unit other than that in which the Securities of the series are denominated, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
     (15) whether the Securities of the series will be issuable as Registered Securities (and if so, whether such Securities will be issuable as Registered Global
 
Securities) or Unregistered Securities (with or without Coupons), or any combination of the foregoing, any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of Unregistered Securities or the payment of interest thereon and, if other than as provided in Section 2.8, the terms upon which Unregistered Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of such series and vice versa;
     (16) whether and under what circumstances the Issuer will pay additional amounts on the Securities of the series held by a person who is not a U.S. person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Issuer will have the option to redeem the Securities of the series rather than pay such additional amounts;
     (17) if the Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
     (18) any trustees, depositaries, authenticating or paying agents, transfer agents or registrars of any other agents with respect to the Securities of such series;
     (19) any deletion from, modification of or addition to the Events of Default or covenants with respect to the Securities of such series;
     (20) if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any other security or property of the Issuer, including, without limitation, securities of another Person held by the Issuer or its Affiliates and, if so, the terms thereof; and
     (21) any other terms of the series.
          All Securities of any one series and Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto shall be substantially identical, except in the case of Registered Securities as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution or Officer's Certificate referred to above or as set forth in any indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time without consent of any Holder, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to such Board Resolution, such Officer's Certificate or in any indenture supplemental hereto.
          The Issuer may deliver Securities of any series having attached thereto appropriate Coupons, if any, executed by the Issuer to the Trustee for authentication together with the applicable documents referred to below in this Section 2.4, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver such Securities and Coupons, if any, to or upon the order of the Issuer (contained in the Issuer Order referred to below in this Section) or pursuant to such procedures acceptable to the Trustee and to such recipients as may be specified from time to time by an Issuer Order. The maturity date, original issue date, interest rate and any other terms of the Securities of such series and Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto shall be determined by or pursuant to such Issuer Order and procedures. If provided for in such procedures, such Issuer Order may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Issuer or its duly
SECTION 2.4 AUTHENTICATION AND DELIVERY OF SECURITIES.
 
authorized agent or agents, which instructions, if oral, shall be promptly confirmed in writing. In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be provided with (in the case of subparagraphs (2), (3) and (4) below only at or before the time of the first request of the Issuer to the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series) and (subject to Section 6.1) shall be fully protected in conclusively relying upon, the following enumerated documents unless and until such documents have been superseded or revoked:
     (1) an Issuer Order requesting such authentication and setting forth delivery instructions if the Securities and Coupons, if any, are not to be delivered to the Issuer, that, with respect to Securities of a series subject to a Periodic Offering, (a) such Issuer Order may be delivered by the Issuer to the Trustee prior to the delivery to the Trustee of such Securities for authentication and delivery, (b) the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Securities of such series for original issue from time to time, in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the aggregate principal amount established for such series, pursuant to an Issuer Order or pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified from time to time by an Issuer Order, (c) the maturity date or dates, original issue date or dates, interest rate or rates and any other terms of Securities of such series shall be determined by an Issuer Order or pursuant to such procedures and (d) if provided for in such procedures, such Issuer Order may authorize authentication and delivery pursuant to oral or electronic instructions from the Issuer or its duly authorized agent or agents, which instructions, if oral, shall be promptly confirmed in writing;
provided
     (2) any Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate and/or executed supplemental indenture referred to in Section 2.1 and 2.3 by or pursuant to which the forms and terms of the Securities and Coupons, if any, were established;
     (3) an Officer's Certificate setting forth the form or forms and terms of the Securities and Coupons, if any, stating that the form or forms and terms of the Securities and Coupons, if any, have been established pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.3 and comply with this Indenture, and covering such other matters as the Trustee may reasonably request; and
     (4) At the option of the Issuer, either one or more Opinions of Counsel, or a letter addressed to the Trustee permitting it to rely on one or more Opinions of Counsel, substantially to the effect that:
     (a) the form or forms of the Securities and Coupons, if any, have been duly authorized and established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
     (b) in the case of an underwritten offering, the terms of the Securities have been duly authorized and established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture, and, in the case of an offering that is not underwritten, certain terms of the Securities have been established pursuant to a Board Resolution, an Officer's Certificate or a supplemental indenture in accordance with this Indenture,
 
and when such other terms as are to be established pursuant to procedures set forth in an Issuer Order shall have been established, all such terms will have been duly authorized by the Issuer and will have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
     (c) such Securities and Coupons, if any, when executed by the Issuer and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and delivered to and duly paid for by the purchasers thereof, and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will have been duly issued under this Indenture, will be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture, and will be valid and binding obligations of the Issuer, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation, moratorium, fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) rights of acceleration, if any, and (iii) the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability and such counsel need express no opinion with regard to the enforceability of Section 6.6 or of a judgment denominated in a currency other than Dollars; and
     (d) all conditions precedent to the issuance and authorization of the Securities have been complied with.
          In rendering such opinions, any counsel may qualify any opinions as to enforceability by stating that such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting the rights and remedies of creditors and is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). Any counsel may state that such opinions are limited to matters arising under the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Such counsel may rely upon opinions of other counsel (copies of which shall be delivered to the Trustee) reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, in which case the opinion shall state that such counsel believes he and the Trustee are entitled so to rely. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, he has relied, to the extent he deems proper, upon certificates of officers of the Issuer and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
          The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities under this section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken by the Issuer or if the Trustee in good faith by a trust committee of Responsible Officers shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders or would affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities, this Indenture or otherwise.
          If the Issuer shall establish pursuant to Section 2.3 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in the form of one or more Registered Global Securities, then the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section and the Issuer Order with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Registered Global Securities that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of all
 
of the Securities of such series issued and not yet cancelled, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Registered Global Security or Securities or the nominee of such Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or delivered or held pursuant to such Depositary's instructions and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to the nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary."
          Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 2.3 must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation.
          The Securities and each Coupon appertaining thereto, if any, shall be signed on behalf of the Issuer by the chairman or vice chairman of its Board of Directors or its president, or any executive (senior or other), a vice president or its treasurer, which may, but need not, be attested. Such signatures may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such officers. The seal of the Issuer may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities. Typographical and other minor errors or defects in any such reproduction of the seal or any such signature shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any Security that has been duly authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
SECTION 2.5 EXECUTION OF SECURITIES.
          In case any officer of the Issuer who shall have signed any of the Securities or Coupons, if any, shall cease to be such officer before the Security or Coupon so signed (or the Security to which the Coupon so signed appertains) shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or disposed of by the Issuer, such Security or Coupon nevertheless may be authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the person who signed such Security or Coupon had not ceased to be such officer of the Issuer; and any Security or Coupon may be signed on behalf of the Issuer by such persons as, at the actual date of the execution of such Security or Coupon, shall be the proper officers of the Issuer, although at the date of the execution and delivery of this Indenture any such person was not such an officer.
          Only such Securities as shall bear thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form hereinbefore recited, executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized signatories, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. No Coupon shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or shall be valid and obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Security to which such Coupon appertains shall have been duly executed by the Trustee. The execution of such certificate by the Trustee upon any Security executed by the Issuer shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the Holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 2.6 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION.
          The Securities of each series shall be issuable as Registered
SECTION 2.7 DENOMINATION AND DATE OF SECURITIES; PAYMENT OF INTEREST.
 
Securities or Unregistered Securities in denominations established as contemplated by Section 2.3 or, with respect to the Registered Securities of any series, if not so established, in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. If denominations of Unregistered Securities of any series are not so established, such Securities shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and $5,000. The Securities of each series shall be numbered, lettered or otherwise distinguished in such manner or in accordance with such plan as the officers of the Issuer executing the same may determine with the approval of the Trustee, as evidenced by the execution and authentication thereof.
          Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Each Unregistered Security shall be dated as provided in the Board Resolution referred to in Section 2.3. The Securities of each series shall bear interest, if any, from the date, and such interest shall be payable on the dates, established as contemplated by Section 2.3.
          The person in whose name any Registered Security of any series is registered at the close of business on any record date applicable to a particular series with respect to any interest payment date for such series shall be entitled to receive the interest, if any, payable on such interest payment date notwithstanding any transfer or exchange of such Registered Security subsequent to the record date and prior to such interest payment date, except if and to the extent the Issuer shall default in the payment of the interest due on such interest payment date for such series, in which case such defaulted interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names Outstanding Registered Securities for such series are registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of Registered Securities not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. The term "record date" as used with respect to any interest payment date (except a date for payment of defaulted interest) for the Securities of any series shall mean the date specified as such in the terms of the Registered Securities of such series established as contemplated by Section 2.3, or, if no such date is so established, if such interest payment date is the first day of a calendar month, the fifteenth day of the preceding calendar month or, if such interest payment date is the fifteenth day of a calendar month, the first day of such calendar month, whether or not such record date is a Business Day.
          (a) The Issuer will keep at each office or agency to be maintained for the purpose as provided in Section 3.2 for each series of Securities a register or registers in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as the Issuer may prescribe, it will provide for the registration of Registered Securities of such series and the registration of transfer of Registered Securities of such series. Such register shall be in written form in the English language or in any other form capable of being converted into such form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times such register or registers shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.
SECTION 2.8 REGISTRATION, TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE.
          Upon due presentation for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at any such office or agency to be maintained for the purpose as provided in Section 3.2, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Registered Security or Registered Securities of the same series,
 
maturity date, interest rate and original issue date in authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount.
          Unregistered Securities (except for any temporary global Unregistered Securities) and Coupons (except for Coupons attached to any temporary global Unregistered Securities) shall be transferable by delivery.
          At the option of the Holder thereof, Registered Securities of any series (other than a Registered Global Security, except as set forth below) may be exchanged for a Registered Security or Registered Securities of such series having authorized denominations and an equal aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of such Registered Securities to be exchanged at the agency of the Issuer that shall be maintained for such purpose in accordance with Section 3.2 and upon payment, if the Issuer shall so require, of the charges hereinafter provided. If the Securities of any series are issued in both registered and unregistered form, at the option of the Holder thereof, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.3, Unregistered Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of such series having authorized denominations and an equal aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of such Unregistered Securities to be exchanged at the agency of the Issuer that shall be maintained for such purpose in accordance with Section 3.2, with, in the case of Unregistered Securities that have Coupons attached, all unmatured Coupons and all matured Coupons in default thereto appertaining, and upon payment, if the Issuer shall so require, of the charges hereinafter provided. At the option of the Holder thereof, if Unregistered Securities of any series, maturity date, interest rate and original issue date are issued in more than one authorized denomination, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.3, such Unregistered Securities may be exchanged for Unregistered Securities of such series having authorized denominations and an equal aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of such Unregistered Securities to be exchanged at the agency of the Issuer that shall be maintained for such purpose in accordance with Section 3.2 or as specified pursuant to Section 2.3, with, in the case of Unregistered Securities that have Coupons attached, all unmatured Coupons and all matured Coupons in default thereto appertaining, and upon payment, if the Issuer shall so require, of the charges hereinafter provided. Registered Securities of any series may not be exchanged for Unregistered Securities of such series unless (1) otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.3 and (2) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel that (x) the Issuer has received from the IRS a ruling or (y) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable United States Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that the inclusion of terms permitting Registered Securities to be exchanged for Unregistered Securities would result in no United States Federal income tax effect adverse to the Issuer or to any Holder. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Securities and Coupons, if any, surrendered upon any exchange or transfer provided for in this Indenture shall be promptly cancelled and disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its regular procedures, and the Trustee shall deliver a certificate of disposition thereof to the Issuer.
          All Registered Securities presented for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption or payment shall (if so required by the Issuer or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee duly executed, by the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
          The Issuer or the registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities. No service charge shall be made for any such transaction.
          The Issuer shall not be required to exchange or register a transfer of (a) any Securities of any series for a period of 15 days preceding the first mailing of notice of redemption of Securities of such series to be redeemed or (b) any Securities selected, called or being called for redemption, in whole or in part, except, in the case of any Security to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not so to be redeemed.
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.8, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, a Registered Global Security representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series to a nominee of such Depositary or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
          If at any time the Depositary for any Registered Securities of a series represented by one or more Registered Global Securities notifies the Issuer that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Registered Securities or if at any time the Depositary for such Registered Securities shall no longer be eligible under Section 2.4, the Issuer shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under Section 2.4 with respect to such Registered Securities. If a successor Depositary eligible under Section 2.4 for such Registered Securities is not appointed by the Issuer within 90 days after the Issuer receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Issuer's election pursuant to Section 2.3 that such Registered Securities be represented by one or more Registered Global Securities shall no longer be effective and the Issuer will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Registered Global Security or Securities representing such Registered Securities in exchange for such Registered Global Security or Securities.
          The Issuer may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Registered Securities of any series issued in the form of one or more Registered Global Securities shall no longer be represented by a Registered Global Security or Securities. In such event the Issuer will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of any Officer's Certificate for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, will authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Registered Global Security or Securities representing such Registered Securities, in exchange for such Registered Global Security or Securities.
          If specified by the Issuer pursuant to Section 2.3 with respect to Securities represented by a Registered Global Security, the Depositary for such Registered Global Security may surrender such Registered Global Security in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of
 
the same series in definitive registered form on such terms as are acceptable to the Issuer and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge,
     (i) to the Person specified by such Depositary a new Registered Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations as requested by such Person, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Registered Global Security; and
     (ii) to such Depositary a new Registered Global Security in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Registered Global Security and the aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities authenticated and delivered pursuant to clause (i) above.
          Upon the exchange of a Registered Global Security for Securities in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, such Registered Global Security shall be cancelled by the Trustee or an agent of the Issuer or the Trustee. Securities in definitive registered form without coupons issued in exchange for a Registered Global Security pursuant to this Section 2.8 shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary for such Registered Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee or an agent of the Issuer or the Trustee. The Trustee or such agent shall deliver such Securities to or as directed by the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
          All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
          Notwithstanding anything herein or in the terms of any series of Securities to the contrary, none of the Issuer, the Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee (any of which, other than the Issuer, shall conclusively rely on an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel) shall be required to exchange any Unregistered Security for a Registered Security if such exchange would result in United States Federal income tax consequences adverse to the Issuer (such as, for example, the inability of the Issuer to deduct from its income, as computed for United States Federal income tax purposes, the interest payable on the Unregistered Securities) under then applicable United States Federal income tax laws. The Trustee shall have no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
          The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Depositary participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Registered Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
 
          In case any temporary or definitive Security or any Coupon appertaining to any Security shall be mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer in its discretion may execute and, upon the written request of any officer of the Issuer, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, maturity date, interest rate and original issue date, bearing a number or other distinguishing symbol not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated or defaced Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen with Coupons corresponding to the Coupons appertaining to the Securities so mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen, or in exchange or substitution for the Security to which such mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon appertained, with Coupons appertaining thereto corresponding to the Coupons so mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case, the applicant for a substitute Security or Coupon shall furnish to the Issuer and to the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to indemnify and defend and to save each of them harmless and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security or Coupon and of the ownership thereof, and in the case of mutilation or defacement shall surrender the Security and related Coupons to the Trustee or such agent.
SECTION 2.9 MUTILATED, DEFACED, DESTROYED, LOST AND STOLEN SECURITIES.
          Upon the issuance of any substitute Security or Coupon, the Issuer or the registrar may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) or its agent connected therewith. In case any Security or Coupon which has matured or is about to mature or has been called for redemption in full shall become mutilated or defaced or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer may, instead of issuing a substitute Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same or the relevant Coupon (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated or defaced Security or Coupon), if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Issuer and to the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee such security or indemnity as any of them may require to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Issuer and the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security or Coupons and of the ownership thereof.
          Every substitute Security or Coupon of any series issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section by virtue of the fact that any such Security or Coupon is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Issuer, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security or Coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone and shall be entitled to all the benefits of (but shall be subject to all the limitations of rights set forth in) this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities or Coupons of such series duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. All Securities and Coupons shall be held and owned upon the express condition that, to the extent permitted by law, the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, defaced or destroyed, lost or stolen Securities and Coupons and shall preclude any and all other rights or remedies notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
 
          All Securities and Coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange, or for credit against any payment in respect of a sinking or analogous fund, if any, if surrendered to the Issuer or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee or any agent of the Trustee, shall be delivered to the Trustee or its agent for cancellation or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be cancelled by it; and no Securities or Coupons shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. The Trustee or its agent shall dispose of cancelled Securities and Coupons held by it in accordance with its regular procedures and deliver a certificate of disposition to the Issuer. If the Issuer or its agent shall acquire any of the Securities or Coupons, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities or Coupons unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee or its agent for cancellation.
SECTION 2.10 CANCELLATION OF SECURITIES; DISPOSAL THEREOF.
          Pending the preparation of definitive Securities for any series, the Issuer may execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Securities for such series (printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise reproduced, in each case in form satisfactory to the Trustee). Temporary Securities of any series shall be issuable as Registered Securities without coupons, or as Unregistered Securities with or without coupons attached thereto, of any authorized denomination, and substantially in the form of the definitive Securities of such series but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the Issuer with the concurrence of the Trustee as evidenced by the execution and authentication thereof. Temporary Securities may contain such references to any provisions of this Indenture as may be appropriate. Every temporary Security shall be executed by the Issuer and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities. Without unreasonable delay the Issuer shall execute and shall furnish definitive Securities of such series and thereupon temporary Registered Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor without charge at each office or agency to be maintained by the Issuer for that purpose pursuant to Section 3.2 and, in the case of Unregistered Securities, at any agency maintained by the Issuer for such purpose as specified pursuant to Section 2.3, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities of such series an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series having authorized denominations and, in the case of Unregistered Securities, having attached thereto any appropriate Coupons. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series, unless otherwise established pursuant to Section 2.3. The provisions of this Section are subject to any restrictions or limitations on the issue and delivery of temporary Unregistered Securities of any series that may be established pursuant to Section 2.3 (including any provision that Unregistered Securities of such series initially be issued in the form of a single global Unregistered Security to be delivered to a depositary or agency located outside the United States and the procedures pursuant to which definitive or global Unregistered Securities of such series would be issued in exchange for such temporary global Unregistered Security).
SECTION 2.11 TEMPORARY SECURITIES.
          . The Issuer in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed
SECTION 2.12 CUSIP NUMBERS
provided
 
on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be place only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
          The Issuer covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, and interest on, if any, each of the Securities of such series (together with any additional amounts payable pursuant to the terms of such Securities) at the place or places, at the respective time or times and in the manner provided in such Securities and in the Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto and in this Indenture. The interest on Securities with Coupons attached (together with any additional amounts payable pursuant to the terms of such Securities) shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several Coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature. If any temporary Unregistered Security provides that interest thereon may be paid while such Security is in temporary form, the interest on any such temporary Unregistered Security (together with any additional amounts payable pursuant to the terms of such Security) shall be paid, as to the installments of interest evidenced by Coupons attached thereto, if any, only upon presentation and surrender thereof, and, as to the other installments of interest, if any, only upon presentation of such Securities for notation thereon of the payment of such interest, in each case subject to any restrictions that may be established pursuant to Section 2.3. The interest, if any, on Registered Securities (together with any additional amounts payable pursuant to the terms of such Securities) shall be payable only to or upon the written order of the Holders thereof and, at the option of the Issuer, may be paid by wire transfer or by mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the written order of such Holders at their last addresses as they appear on the Securities register of the Issuer.
SECTION 3.1 PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST.
          So long as any Registered Securities are authorized for issuance pursuant to this Indenture or are outstanding hereunder, the Issuer will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where the Registered Securities of each series may be presented for payment, where the Securities of each series may be presented for exchange as is provided in this Indenture and, if applicable, pursuant to Section 2.3 and where the Registered Securities of each series may be presented for registration of transfer as in this Indenture provided.
SECTION 3.2 OFFICES FOR PAYMENTS, ETC.
          The Issuer will maintain one or more offices or agencies in a city or cities located outside the United States (including any city in which such an agency is required to be maintained under the rules of any stock exchange on which the Securities of such series are listed) where the Unregistered Securities, if any, of each series and Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto may be presented for payment. No payment on any Unregistered Security or Coupon will be made upon presentation of such Unregistered Security or Coupon at an agency of the
 
Issuer within the United States, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account in, or by mail to an address in, the United States, unless pursuant to applicable United States laws and regulations then in effect such payment can be made without tax consequences adverse to the Issuer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payments in Dollars of Unregistered Securities of any series and Coupons appertaining thereto which are payable in Dollars may be made at an agency of the Issuer maintained in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York if such payment in Dollars at each agency maintained by the Issuer outside the United States for payment on such Unregistered Securities is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
          The Issuer will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Securities of any series, the Coupons appertaining thereto or this Indenture may be served.
          The Issuer will give to the Trustee written notice of the location of each such office or agency and of any change of location thereof. In case the Issuer shall fail to maintain any agency required by this Section to be located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or shall fail to give such notice of the location or for any change in the location of any of the above agencies, presentations and demands may be made and notices may be served at the designated office of the Trustee.
          The Issuer may from time to time designate one or more additional offices or agencies where the Securities of a series and any Coupons appertaining thereto may be presented for payment, where the Securities of that series may be presented for exchange as provided in this Indenture and pursuant to Section 2.3 and where the Registered Securities of that series may be presented for registration of transfer as in this Indenture provided, and the Issuer may from time to time rescind any such designation, as the Issuer may deem desirable or expedient; provided, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Issuer of its obligations to maintain the agencies provided for in this Section. The Issuer shall give to the Trustee prompt written notice of any such designation or rescission thereof.
          The Issuer, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 6.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to each series of Securities hereunder.
SECTION 3.3 APPOINTMENT TO FILL A VACANCY IN OFFICE OF TRUSTEE.
          Whenever the Issuer shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section,
SECTION 3.4 PAYING AGENTS.
     (a) that it will hold all sums received by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Issuer or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, or Coupons appertaining thereto, if any, or of the Trustee;
 
     (b) that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Issuer (or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) to make any payment of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series when the same shall be due and payable; and
     (c) that it will pay any such sums so held in trust by it to the Trustee upon the Trustee's written request at any time during the continuance of the failure referred to in the foregoing clause (b).
          The Issuer will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series, deposit with the paying agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal or interest so becoming due, and (unless such paying agent is the Trustee) the Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
          If the Issuer shall act as its own paying agent with respect to the Securities of any series, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or interest on the Securities of such series, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series or the Coupons appertaining thereto a sum sufficient to pay such principal or interest so becoming due. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
          Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, but subject to Section 10.1, the Issuer may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge with respect to one or more or all series of Securities hereunder, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust for any such series by the Issuer or any paying agent hereunder, as required by this Section, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained.
          Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the provisions of Sections 10.3 and 10.4.
          The Issuer will furnish to the Trustee on or before January 31 in each year (beginning with January 31, 2008) a brief certificate (which need not comply with Section 11.5) from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Issuer stating that in the course of the performance by the signer of his or her duties as an officer of the Issuer he or she would normally have knowledge of any default or non-compliance by the Issuer in the performance of any covenants or conditions contained in this Indenture, stating whether or not he or she has knowledge of any such default or non-compliance (without regard to notice requirements or grace periods) and, if so, describing each such default or non-compliance of which the signer has knowledge and the nature thereof.
SECTION 3.5 COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
          The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Issuer becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officer's Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or default and the action which the Issuer proposes to take with respect thereto.
          Subject to Article IX, the Issuer will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Issuer
SECTION 3.6 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
 
and its Subsidiaries; , that the Issuer shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, if, in the judgment of the Issuer, the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Securityholders.
provided
          In the event of the publication of any notice pursuant to Section 5.11, 6.11, 6.12, 8.2, 10.4, 11.4 or 12.2, the party making such publication in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and London shall also, to the extent that notice is required to be given to Holders of Securities of any series by applicable Luxembourg law or stock exchange regulation, as evidenced by an Officer's Certificate delivered to such party, make a similar publication in Luxembourg.
SECTION 3.7 LUXEMBOURG PUBLICATIONS.
          The Issuer shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
SECTION 3.8 CALCULATION OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT.
          If and so long as the Trustee shall not be the Security registrar for the Securities of any series, the Issuer and any other obligor on the Securities will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of the Registered Securities of such series pursuant to Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act:
SECTION 4.1 ISSUER TO FURNISH TRUSTEE INFORMATION AS TO NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF SECURITYHOLDERS.
     (a) semi-annually not more than 5 days after each record date for the payment of interest on such Registered Securities, as hereinabove specified, as of such record date and on dates to be determined pursuant to Section 2.3 for non-interest bearing Registered Securities in each year; and
     (b) at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request in writing, within thirty days after receipt by the Issuer of any such request as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such information is furnished.
          The Issuer covenants to file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Issuer is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents, and other reports that the Issuer may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act or pursuant to Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 4.2 REPORTS BY THE ISSUER.
          Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive
 
notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Issuer's compliance with any covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
          .
SECTION 4.3 REPORTS BY THE TRUSTEE
     (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each May 15 following the date of the initial issuance of Securities under this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 15, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
     (b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Issuer. The Issuer will promptly notify the Trustee in writing when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
          . "Event of Default" with respect to Securities of any series, wherever used herein, means any one of the following events which shall have occurred and be continuing (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
SECTION 5.1 EVENT OF DEFAULT DEFINED, ACCELERATION OF MATURITY; WAIVER OF DEFAULT
     (a) default in the payment of any installment of interest upon any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; provided that, a valid extension of an interest payment period by the Issuer in accordance with the terms of such Securities shall not constitute a failure to pay interest; or
     (b) default in the payment of all or any part of the principal or premium (if any) on any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise; or
     (c) default in the payment of any sinking fund installment as and when the same shall become due and payable by the terms of the Securities of such series; or
     (d) failure on the part of the Issuer duly to observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on the part of the Issuer in the Securities of such series or
 
contained in this Indenture (other than a covenant or agreement included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than such series) for a period of 90 days after the date on which written notice specifying such failure, stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder and demanding that the Issuer remedy the same, shall have been given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Issuer by the Trustee, or to the Issuer and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the series to which such covenant or agreement relates; or
     (e) a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Issuer in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Issuer for any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
     (f) the Issuer shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Issuer or for any substantial part of its or their property, or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
     (g) any other Event of Default provided in the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series.
          If an Event of Default described in clause (a), (b) or (c) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, except for any series of Securities the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each such affected series then Outstanding hereunder (each such series voting as a separate class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration, the same shall become immediately due and payable.
          Except as otherwise provided in the terms of any series of Senior Securities pursuant to Section 2.3, if an Event of Default described in clause (d) or (g) above with respect to all series of the Senior Securities then Outstanding, occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all of the Senior Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Senior Securities then Outstanding hereunder (treated as one class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal (or, if the Senior Securities of any series are Original Issue Discount
 
Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all of the Senior Securities then Outstanding, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon such declaration, the same shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default described in clause (e) or (f) above occurs and is continuing, then the principal amount of all the Senior Securities then Outstanding, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
          Except as otherwise provided in the terms of any series of Subordinated Securities pursuant to Section 2.3, if an Event of Default described in clause (d) or (g) above with respect to all series of Subordinated Securities then Outstanding, occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all of the Subordinated Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all of the Subordinated Securities then Outstanding hereunder (treated as one class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal (or, if the Subordinated Securities of any series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all of the Subordinated Securities then Outstanding, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon such declaration, the same shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default described in clause (e) or (f) above occurs and is continuing, then the principal amount of all of the Subordinated Securities then Outstanding, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
          If an Event of Default described in clause (d) or (g) occurs and is continuing, which Event of Default is with respect to less than all series of Senior Securities then Outstanding, then, and in each and every such case, except for any series of Senior Securities the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities of each such affected series then Outstanding hereunder (each such series voting as a separate class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration, the same shall become immediately due and payable.
          If an Event of Default described in clause (d) or (g) occurs and is continuing, which Event of Default is with respect to less than all series of Subordinated Securities then Outstanding, then, and in each and every such case, except for any series of Subordinated Securities the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Securities of each such affected series then Outstanding hereunder (each such series voting as a separate class) by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders), may declare the entire principal (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable
 
immediately, and upon any such declaration, the same shall become immediately due and payable.
          The foregoing provisions are subject to the condition that if, at any time after the principal (or, if the Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal as may be specified in the terms thereof) of the Securities of any series (or of all the Securities, as the case may be) shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided,
     (A) the Issuer shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
     (i) all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of such series (or all the Securities, as the case may be); and
     (ii) the principal of any and all Securities of such series (or of all the Securities, as the case may be) which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration; and
     (iii) interest upon such principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest, at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in the Securities of such series (or at the respective rates of interest or Yields to Maturity of all the Securities, as the case may be) to the date of such payment or deposit; and
     (iv) all amounts payable to the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.6; and
     (B) all Events of Default under the Indenture, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities which shall have become due by acceleration, shall have been cured, waived or otherwise remedied as provided herein,
then and in every such case the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all the Securities of such series voting as a separate class (or of all the Securities, as the case may be, voting as a single class), then Outstanding, by written notice to the Issuer and to the Trustee, may waive all defaults with respect to such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon.
          For all purposes under this Indenture, if a portion of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Securities shall have been accelerated and declared due and payable pursuant to the provisions hereof, then, from and after such declaration, unless such declaration has been rescinded and annulled, the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Securities shall be deemed, for all purposes hereunder, to be such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, and payment of such portion of the principal thereof as shall be due and payable as a result of such acceleration, together with interest, if any, thereon
 
and all other amounts owing thereunder, shall constitute payment in full of such Original Issue Discount Securities.
          . The Issuer covenants that (a) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of any series when such interest shall have become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days, or (b) in case default shall be made in the payment of all or any part of the principal of any of the Securities of any series when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of the Securities of such series or upon any redemption or by declaration or otherwise, then upon demand of the Trustee, the Issuer will pay to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all Securities of such series, and such Coupons, for principal and interest, as the case may be (with interest to the date of such payment upon the overdue principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in the Securities of such series); and in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and such other amount due the Trustee under Section 6.6 in respect of Securities of such series.
SECTION 5.2 COLLECTION OF INDEBTEDNESS BY TRUSTEE; TRUSTEE MAY PROVE DEBT
          Until such demand is made by the Trustee, the Issuer may pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of any series to the registered Holders, whether or not the Securities of such series be overdue.
          In case the Issuer shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceedings to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities, wherever situated, all the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable.
          In case there shall be pending proceedings relative to the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Securities under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, or in case a receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official shall have been appointed for or taken possession of the Issuer or its property or such other obligor, or in case of any other comparable judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities, or to the creditors or property of the Issuer or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise:
     (a) to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal and interest (or, if the Securities of any series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) owing
 
and unpaid in respect of the Securities of any series, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 6.6) and of the Securityholders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or other obligor upon the Securities, or to the creditors or property of the Issuer or such other obligor; and
     (b) unless prohibited by applicable law and regulations, to vote on behalf of the holders of the Securities of any series in any election of a receiver, assignee, trustee or a standby trustee in arrangement, reorganization, liquidation or other bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, custodian or other person performing similar functions in respect of any such proceedings; and
     (c) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute all amounts received with respect to the claims of the Securityholders and of the Trustee on their behalf; and any trustee, receiver, or liquidator, custodian or other similar official performing similar functions in respect of any such proceedings is hereby authorized by each of the Securityholders to make payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of payments directly to the Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee its costs and expenses of collection and all other amounts due to it pursuant to Section 6.6.
          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or vote for or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of any series or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding, except as aforesaid in clause (b).
          All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Securities of any series or Coupons appertaining to such Securities, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities of such series or Coupons appertaining to such Securities or the production thereof in any trial or other proceedings relative thereto, and any such action or proceedings instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be awarded to the Trustee for ratable distribution to the Holders of the Securities or Coupons appertaining to such Securities in respect of which such action was taken, after payment of all sums due to the Trustee under Section 6.6 in respect of such Securities.
          In any proceedings brought by the Trustee (and also any proceedings involving the interpretation of any provision of this Indenture to which the Trustee shall be a party) the Trustee shall be held to represent all the Holders of the Securities or Coupons appertaining to such Securities in respect to which such action was taken, and it shall not be necessary to make any Holders of such Securities or Coupons appertaining to such Securities parties to any such proceedings.
          . Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article in respect of any series shall be applied in the following order at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on
SECTION 5.3 APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS
 
account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the several Securities and Coupons appertaining to such Securities in respect of which monies have been collected and stamping (or otherwise noting) thereon the payment, or issuing Securities of such series in reduced principal amounts in exchange for the presented Securities of like series if only partially paid, or upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses applicable to such series of Securities in respect of which monies have been collected, including all amounts due to the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee pursuant to Section 6.6 in respect to such series of Securities;
     SECOND: If the Securities of such series are Subordinated Securities, to the payment of amounts then due and unpaid to the holders of Senior Indebtedness with respect to such series, to the extent required pursuant to the Subordination Provisions established with respect to the Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2.3(9).
     THIRD: In case the principal of the Securities of such series in respect of which moneys have been collected shall not have become and be then due and payable, to the payment of interest on the Securities of such series in default in the order of the maturity of the installments on such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee and is permitted by applicable law) upon the overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in such Securities, such payments to be made ratably to the persons entitled thereto, without discrimination or preference;
     FOURTH: In case the principal of the Securities of such series in respect of which moneys have been collected shall have become and shall be then due and payable, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon all the Securities of such series for principal and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee and is permitted by applicable law) upon the overdue installations of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified in the Securities of such series; and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon the Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal and interest or Yield to Maturity, without preference or priority of principal over interest or Yield to Maturity, or of interest or Yield to Maturity over principal, or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest or of any Security of such series over any other Security of such series, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and accrued and unpaid interest or Yield to Maturity; and
     FIFTH: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Issuer or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
 
          . In case an Event of Default has occurred, has not been waived and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
SECTION 5.4 SUITS FOR ENFORCEMENT
          . In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Issuer and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Issuer, the Trustee and the Securityholders shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
SECTION 5.5 RESTORATION OF RIGHTS ON ABANDONMENT OF PROCEEDINGS
          . No Holder of any Security of any series or of any Coupon appertaining thereto shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any action or proceeding at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise upon or under or with respect to this Indenture or such Security, or for the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official or for any other remedy hereunder or thereunder, unless (a) such Holder previously shall have given to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and (b) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such affected series then Outstanding (treated as a single class) shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action or proceedings in its own name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and (c) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such action or proceeding, and (d) no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.9; it being understood and intended, and being expressly covenanted by the taker and Holder of every Security or Coupon with every other taker and Holder and the Trustee, that no one or more Holders of Securities of any series or Coupons appertaining to such Securities shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture or any Security to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other such taker or Holder of Securities or Coupons appertaining to such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such taker or Holder or to enforce any right under this Indenture or any Security, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all Holders of Securities of the applicable series and Coupons appertaining to such Securities. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
SECTION 5.6 LIMITATIONS ON SUITS BY SECURITY HOLDERS
          . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture and
SECTION 5.7 UNCONDITIONAL RIGHT OF SECURITYHOLDERS TO INSTITUTE CERTAIN SUITS
 
any provision of any Security, the right of any Holder of any Security or Coupon to receive payment of the principal of and interest on such Security or Coupon on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or Coupon or the applicable redemption dates provided for in such Security, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
          . Except as provided in Section 5.6, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 5.8 POWERS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE; DELAY OR OMISSION NOT WAIVER OF DEFAULT
          No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of Securities or Coupons to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every power and remedy given by this Indenture, any Security or law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or Coupons may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or, subject to Section 5.6, by the Holders of Securities or Coupons.
          . The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series affected (with each such series voting as a separate class) at the time Outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series by this Indenture; provided, that such direction shall not be otherwise than in accordance with law and the provisions of this Indenture; and provided, further, that (subject to the provisions of Section 6.1) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if (a) the Trustee, being advised by counsel, shall determine that the action or proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken; or (b) if the Trustee by its trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee shall determine in good faith that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability; or (c) if the Trustee in good faith shall so determine that the actions or forbearances specified in or pursuant to such direction would be unduly prejudicial to the interests of Holders of the Securities of all affected series not joining in the giving of said direction, it being understood that (subject to Section 6.1) the Trustee shall have no duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders.
SECTION 5.9 CONTROL BY HOLDERS OF SECURITIES
          Nothing in this Indenture shall impair the right of the Trustee in its discretion to take any action deemed proper by the Trustee and which is not inconsistent with such direction or directions by Securityholders.
          . Prior to the declaration of acceleration of the maturity of the Securities of any series as provided in Section 5.1, the Holders
SECTION 5.10 WAIVER OF PAST DEFAULTS
 
of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding (voting as a single class) may on behalf of the Holders of all such Securities waive any past default or Event of Default described in Section 5.1 and its consequences, except a default in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Security affected. In the case of any such waiver, the Issuer, the Trustee and the Holders of all such Securities shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively, and such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          . The Trustee shall, within ninety days after the occurrence of a default with respect to the Securities of any series, give notice of all defaults with respect to that series known to the Trustee (i) if any Unregistered Securities of that series are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof, by publication at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg) and (ii) to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, unless in each case such defaults shall have been cured before the mailing or publication of such notice (the term "default" for the purpose of this Section being hereby defined to mean any event or condition which is, or with notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default); provided, that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities of such series, or in the payment of any sinking fund installment on such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Securityholders of such series.
SECTION 5.11 TRUSTEE TO GIVE NOTICE OF DEFAULT, BUT MAY WITHHOLD IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES
          . All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security or Coupon by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder or group of Securityholders of any series holding in the aggregate more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series, or, in the case of any suit relating to or arising under clause (d) or (g) of Section 5.1 (if the suit relates to Securities of more than one but less than all series), 10% in aggregate principal amount of Securities then Outstanding and affected thereby, or in the case of any suit relating to or arising under clause (d) or (g) (if the suit under clause (d) or (g) relates to all the Securities then Outstanding), or (e) or (f) of Section 5.1, 10% in aggregate principal amount of all Securities then Outstanding, or to any suit
SECTION 5.12 RIGHT OF COURT TO REQUIRE FILING OF UNDERTAKING TO PAY COSTS
 
instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security on or after the due date expressed in such Security or any date fixed for redemption.
          . Prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a particular series and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default which may have occurred with respect to such series, the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to such series of Securities. In case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred and has not been cured or waived, the Trustee shall exercise with respect to such series of Securities such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture with respect to such series of Securities, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
SECTION 6.1 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TRUSTEE; DURING DEFAULT; PRIOR TO DEFAULT
          No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
     (a) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series and after the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default with respect to such series which may have occurred:
     (i) the duties and obligations of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (ii) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any statements, certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such statements, certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein);
     (b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
     (c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders pursuant to Section 5.9 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture.
          None of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there shall be reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such liability is not reasonably assured to it.
          The provisions of this Section 6.1 are in furtherance of and subject to Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act.
          . In furtherance of and subject to the Trust Indenture Act, and subject to Section 6.1:
SECTION 6.2 CERTAIN RIGHTS OF THE TRUSTEE
     (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, Officer's Certificate or any other certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
     (b) any request, direction, order or demand of the Issuer mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officer's Certificate or Issuer Order (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically prescribed herein or in the terms established in respect of any series); and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer;
     (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and any advice or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
     (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the trusts or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred therein or thereby;
     (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
     (f) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default, the Trustee shall not be bound to make any
 
investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security, or other paper or document unless (i) requested in writing so to do by the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series affected then Outstanding (treated as one class) or (ii) otherwise provided in the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.3; provided, that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding; the reasonable expenses of every such investigation shall be paid by the Issuer or, if paid by the Trustee or any predecessor trustee, shall be repaid by the Issuer upon demand;
     (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys not regularly in its employ and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
     (h) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact an Event of Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office and such notice references the Securities, the Issuer or this Indenture;
     (i) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
     (j) the Trustee may request that the Issuer deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
          . The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or Coupons. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Issuer of any of the Securities or of the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 6.3 TRUSTEE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR RECITALS, DISPOSITION OF SECURITIES OR APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS THEREOF
          The Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or of the Trustee,
SECTION 6.4 TRUSTEE AND AGENTS MAY HOLD SECURITIES OR COUPONS; COLLECTIONS, ETC.
 
in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities or Coupons with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent and may otherwise deal with the Issuer and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Issuer with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee or such agent.
          . Subject to the provisions of Section 10.4 hereof, all moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law. Neither the Trustee nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder.
SECTION 6.5 MONEYS HELD BY TRUSTEE
          . The Issuer covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such compensation as the Issuer and the Trustee shall agree in writing (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), and the Issuer covenants and agrees to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by or on behalf of it in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its own negligence or willful misconduct. The Issuer also covenants to indemnify each of the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claims, liability or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee), arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Issuer, or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, or in connection with enforcing the provisions of this Section, except to the extent that such loss, damage, claim, liability or expense is determined to have been caused by its own negligence or willful misconduct. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 5.1(e) or Section 5.1(f), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law. The obligations of the Issuer under this Section to compensate and indemnify the Trustee and each predecessor trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. Such additional indebtedness shall be a senior claim to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities or Coupons, and the Securities are hereby subordinated to such senior claim.
SECTION 6.6 COMPENSATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF TRUSTEE AND ITS PRIOR CLAIM
          Subject to Sections 6.1 and 6.2, whenever in the administration of the trusts of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or
SECTION 6.7 RIGHT OF TRUSTEE TO RELY ON OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE, ETC.
 
established prior to taking or suffering or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
          . The following indentures are hereby specifically described for the purposes of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act: this Indenture with respect to series of Securities that are of an equal priority and the indenture between the Issuer and The First National Bank of Chicago, dated as of March 11, 1997, as amended, and the indenture between the Issuer and The Bank of New York, dated as of January 29, 2002, in each case with respect to any series of securities thereunder that are of an equal priority to any series of the Securities.
SECTION 6.8 INDENTURES NOT CREATING POTENTIAL CONFLICTING INTERESTS FOR THE TRUSTEE
          . The Trustee shall comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 6.9 QUALIFICATION OF TRUSTEE: CONFLICTING INTERESTS
          . The Trustee for each series of Securities hereunder shall at all times be a corporation or banking association organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, and which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers and is subject to supervision or examination by Federal, state or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 6.11.
SECTION 6.10 PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR APPOINTMENT AS TRUSTEE
          The provisions of this Section 6.10 are in furtherance of and subject to Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
          . (a) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign with respect to one or more or all series of Securities by giving written notice of resignation to the Issuer and (i) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, by giving notice of such resignation to the Holders thereof, by publication at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, by mailing notice of such resignation to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 313(c)(2) of the Trust
SECTION 6.11 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL; APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE
 
Indenture Act at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee and (iii) by mailing notice of such resignation to the Holders of then Outstanding Registered Securities of each series affected at their addresses as they shall appear on the registry books. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Issuer shall promptly appoint a successor trustee or trustees with respect to the applicable series by written instrument in duplicate, executed by authority of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee or trustees. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed with respect to any series and have accepted appointment within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of resignation, the resigning trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Issuer for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 5.12, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
     (b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
     (i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months; or
     (ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.10 and Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months; or
     (iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver or liquidator of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case, the Issuer may remove the Trustee with respect to the applicable series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee for such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Issuer, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 315(e) of the Trust Indenture Act, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months may on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to such series. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and so prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
 
     (c) The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series and appoint a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of such series by delivering to the Trustee so removed, to the successor trustee so appointed and to the Issuer the evidence provided for in Section 7.1 of the action in that regard taken by the Securityholders.
     (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee with respect to any series and any appointment of a successor trustee with respect to such series pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 6.11 shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 6.12.
          . Any successor trustee appointed as provided in Section 6.11 shall execute and deliver to the Issuer and to its predecessor trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor trustee with respect to all or any applicable series shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all rights, powers, duties and obligations with respect to such series of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as trustee for such series hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Issuer or of the successor trustee, upon payment of its charges then unpaid, the trustee ceasing to act shall, subject to Section 10.4, pay over to the successor trustee all moneys at the time held by it hereunder and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all such rights, powers, duties and obligations. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Issuer shall execute any and all instruments in writing for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers. Any trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a prior claim upon all property or funds held or collected by such trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.6.
SECTION 6.12 ACCEPTANCE OF APPOINTMENT BY SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE
          If a successor trustee is appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Issuer, the predecessor trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto which shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the predecessor trustee, and shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts under separate indentures.
          No successor trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 6.12 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified under Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act and eligible under the provisions of Section 6.10.
 
          Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor trustee as provided in this Section 6.12, the Issuer shall give notice thereof (a) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof, by publication of such notice at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), (b) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 313(c)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act, by mailing such notice to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee (and the Trustee shall make such information available to the Issuer for such purpose) and (c) to the Holders of Registered Securities of each series affected, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the registry books. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the resignation, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by Section 6.11. If the Issuer fails to give such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be given at the expense of the Issuer.
          . Any corporation or banking association into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation or banking association resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation or banking association succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided, that such corporation or banking association shall be qualified under Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act and eligible under the provisions of Section 6.10, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.13 MERGER, CONVERSION, CONSOLIDATION OR SUCCESSION TO BUSINESS OF TRUSTEE
          In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities of any series shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Securities of any series shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee; and in all such cases such certificate of authentication shall have the full force which under this Indenture or the Securities of such series it is provided that the certificate of authentication of the Trustee shall have; provided, that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee or to authenticate Securities of any series in the name of any predecessor trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
          . The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship listed in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated.
SECTION 6.14 PREFERENTIAL COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE ISSUER
 
          . As long as any Securities of a series remain Outstanding, the Trustee may, by an instrument in writing, appoint with the approval of the Issuer an authenticating agent (the "Authenticating Agent") which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities, including Securities issued upon exchange, registration of transfer, partial redemption or pursuant to Section 2.9. Securities of each such series authenticated by such Authenticating Agent shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee. Whenever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities of any series by the Trustee or to the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent for such series and a Certificate of Authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by such Authenticating Agent. Such Authenticating Agent shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any State, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $45,000,000 (determined as provided in Section 6.10 with respect to the Trustee) and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or state authority.
SECTION 6.15 APPOINTMENT OF AUTHENTICATING AGENT
          Any corporation into which any Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted, or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which any Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency business of any Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be the Authenticating Agent with respect to all series of Securities for which it served as Authenticating Agent without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or such Authenticating Agent. Any Authenticating Agent may at any time, and if it shall cease to be eligible shall, resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Issuer.
          Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time any Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6.15 with respect to one or more series of Securities, the Trustee shall upon receipt of an Issuer Order appoint a successor Authenticating Agent, and the Issuer shall provide notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 11.4. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all rights, powers, duties and responsibilities of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as Authenticating Agent. The Issuer agrees to pay to the Authenticating Agent for such series from time to time reasonable compensation. The Authenticating Agent for the Securities of any series shall have no responsibility or liability for any action taken by it as such at the direction of the Trustee.
          Sections 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.6 and 7.3 shall be applicable to any Authenticating Agent.
 
          . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by a specified percentage in principal amount of the Securityholders of any or all series may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such specified percentage of Securityholders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee. Proof of execution of any instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Sections 6.1 and 6.2) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Issuer, if made in the manner provided in this Article.
SECTION 7.1 EVIDENCE OF ACTION TAKEN BY SECURITYHOLDERS
          . Subject to Sections 6.1 and 6.2, the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder or his agent or proxy may be proved in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The holding of Registered Securities shall be proved by the Security register or by a certificate of the registrar thereof.
SECTION 7.2 PROOF OF EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS AND OF HOLDING OF SECURITIES
          . The Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the person in whose name any Security shall be registered upon the Security register for such series as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of and, subject to the provisions of this Indenture, interest on such Security and for all other purposes; and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. The Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may treat the Holder of any Unregistered Security and the Holder of any Coupon as the absolute owner of such Unregistered Security or Coupon (whether or not such Unregistered Security or Coupon shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer, the Trustee, nor any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any such person, or upon his order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for moneys payable upon any such Unregistered Security or Coupon.
SECTION 7.3 HOLDERS TO BE TREATED AS OWNERS
          . In determining whether the Holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any or all series have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action by Securityholders under this Indenture, Securities which are owned by the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities with respect to which such determination is being made or by any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities with respect to which such determination is being made shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such action only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned
SECTION 7.4 SECURITIES OWNED BY ISSUER DEEMED NOT OUTSTANDING
 
shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Issuer or any other obligor upon the Securities or any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer or any other obligor on the Securities. In case of a dispute as to such right, the advice of counsel shall be full protection in respect of any decision made by the Trustee in accordance with such advice. Upon request of the Trustee, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officer's Certificate listing and identifying all Securities, if any, known by the Issuer to be owned or held by or for the account of any of the above-described persons; and, subject to Sections 6.1 and 6.2, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officer's Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all Securities not listed therein are Outstanding for the purpose of any such determination.
          . At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section 7.1, of the taking of any action by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any or all series, as the case may be, specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any Holder of a Security the serial number of which is shown by the evidence to be included among the serial numbers of the Securities the Holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice at the Corporate Trust Office and upon proof of holding as provided in this Article, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security. Except as aforesaid, any such action taken by the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Securities issued in exchange or substitution therefor or on registration of transfer thereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon any such Security. Any action taken by the Holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any or all series, as the case may be, specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Issuer, the Trustee and the Holders of all the Securities affected by such action.
SECTION 7.5 RIGHT OF REVOCATION OF ACTION TAKEN
          . The Issuer, when authorized by a Board Resolution (which resolution may provide general terms or parameters for such action and may provide that the specific terms of such action may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to an Issuer Order), and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for one or more of the following purposes:
SECTION 8.1 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES WITHOUT CONSENT OF SECURITYHOLDERS
     (a) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as security for the Securities of one or more series any property or assets;
     (b) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Issuer, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Issuer pursuant to Article IX;
 
     (c) to add to the covenants of the Issuer such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions as the Issuer and the Trustee shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of Securities or Coupons, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions an Event of Default permitting the enforcement of all or any of the several remedies provided in this Indenture as herein set forth; provided, that in respect of any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period of grace after default (which period may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such an Event of Default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such an Event of Default or may limit the right of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series to waive such an Event of Default;
     (d) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture, or to make any other provisions as the Issuer may deem necessary or desirable, provided, that no such action shall adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities or Coupons;
     (e) to establish the forms or terms of Securities of any series or of the Coupons appertaining to such Securities as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 2.3;
     (f) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.12; and
     (g) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, or to add any new provision to this Indenture, in respect of one or more series of Securities; provided, however, that any such change, elimination or addition shall not apply to any Security Outstanding on the date of such indenture supplemental hereto.
          The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Issuer in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
          Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section may be executed without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 8.2.
          
SECTION 8.2 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES WITH CONSENT OF SECURITYHOLDERS.
 
     (A) Except as set forth in paragraph (C) below, with the consent (evidenced as provided in Article VII) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series of Senior Securities affected by such supplemental indenture (voting as one class), the Issuer, when authorized by a Board Resolution (which resolution may provide general terms or parameters for such action and may provide that the specific terms of such action may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to an Issuer Order), and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as in force and effect at the date of execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series or of the Coupons appertaining to such Securities.
     (B) Except as set forth in paragraph (C) below, with the consent (evidenced as provided in Article VII) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series of Subordinated Securities affected by such supplemental indenture (voting as one class), the Issuer, when authorized by a Board Resolution (which resolution may provide general terms or parameters for such action and may provide that the specific terms of such action may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to an Issuer Order), and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as in force and effect at the date of execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series or of the Coupons appertaining to such Securities.
     (C) No such supplemental indenture shall (i) extend the final maturity of any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof, or make the principal thereof (including any amount in respect of original issue discount), or premium thereon, if any, or interest thereon payable in any coin or currency other than that provided in the Securities and Coupons or in accordance with the terms thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon an acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.1 or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 5.2, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the Subordination Provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter the provisions of Section 11.11 or 11.12 or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder, in each case without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities of any series, the consent of the Holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Security so affected.
 
     (D) A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of Holders of Securities of such series, or of Coupons appertaining to such Securities, with respect to such covenant or provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series or of the Coupons appertaining to such Securities.
          Upon the request of the Issuer, accompanied by a copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors (which resolution may provide general terms or parameters for such action and may provide that the specific terms of such action may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to an Issuer Order) certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the Issuer authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of the Holders of the Securities as aforesaid and other documents, if any, required by Section 7.1, the Trustee shall join with the Issuer in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
          It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
          Promptly after the execution by the Issuer and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall give notice thereof (i) to the Holders of then Outstanding Registered Securities of each series affected thereby, by mailing a notice thereof by first-class mail to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security register, (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected thereby are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 313(c)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act, by mailing a notice thereof by first-class mail to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee and (iii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected thereby are then Outstanding, to all Holders thereof, by publication of a notice thereof at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), and in each case such notice shall set forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. Any failure of the Issuer to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
          . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions hereof, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Issuer and the Holders of Securities of each series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
SECTION 8.3 EFFECT OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
          . The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2, shall be provided with an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article VIII complies with the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
SECTION 8.4 DOCUMENTS TO BE GIVEN TO TRUSTEE
          . Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee for such series as to any matter provided for by such supplemental indenture or as to any action taken by Securityholders. If the Issuer or the Trustee shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Issuer, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of such series then Outstanding.
SECTION 8.5 NOTATION ON SECURITIES IN RESPECT OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
          . The Issuer shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Issuer shall not permit any other Person to consolidate with or merge into the Issuer, unless:
SECTION 9.1 ISSUER MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC., ONLY ON CERTAIN TERMS
     (a) either the Issuer shall be the continuing corporation, or the successor corporation (if other than the Issuer) formed by such consolidation or into which the Issuer is merged or to which the properties and assets of the Issuer substantially as an entirety are transferred or leased shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Issuer under the Securities and this Indenture; and
     (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Issuer or a Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Issuer or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing.
          . The successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Issuer is merged or to which such transfer or lease is made shall succeed to and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Issuer under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Issuer herein, and thereafter (except in the case of a lease to another Person) the predecessor corporation shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities and, in the event of such conveyance or transfer, any such predecessor corporation may be dissolved and liquidated.
SECTION 9.2 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION SUBSTITUTED
 
          . The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2, shall be provided with an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article IX.
SECTION 9.3 OPINION OF COUNSEL TO BE GIVEN TO TRUSTEE
          . (A) If at any time (i) the Issuer shall have paid or caused to be paid the principal of and interest on all the Securities of any series Outstanding hereunder and all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto (other than Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.9) as and when the same shall have become due and payable, or (ii) the Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of any series theretofore authenticated and all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto (other than any Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.9) or (iii) in the case of any series of Securities where the exact amount (including the currency of payment) of principal of and interest due on which can be determined at the time of making the deposit referred to in clause (b) below, (a) all the Securities of such series and all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and (b) the Issuer shall have irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust the entire amount in (i) cash (other than moneys repaid by the Trustee or any paying agent to the Issuer in accordance with Section 10.4), (ii) in the case of any series of Securities the payments on which may only be made in Dollars, direct obligations of the United States of America, backed by its full faith and credit ("U.S. Government Obligations"), maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will insure the availability of cash sufficient to pay at such maturity or upon such redemption, as the case may be, or (iii) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay (x) the principal and interest on all Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto on each date that such principal or interest is due and payable and (y) any mandatory sinking fund payments on the dates on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Securities of such series; and if, in any such case, the Issuer shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Issuer, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to (i) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Securities of such Series and of Coupons appertaining thereto pursuant to Section 2.8 and the Issuer's right of optional redemption, if any, (ii) substitution of mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons, (iii) rights of holders of Securities and Coupons appertaining thereto to receive payments of principal thereof and interest thereon, upon the original stated due dates therefor (but not upon acceleration), and remaining rights of the Holders to receive mandatory sinking fund payments,
SECTION 10.1 SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE
 
if any, (iv) any optional redemption rights of such series of Securities to the extent to be exercised to make such call for redemption within one year, (v) the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, including those under Section 6.6, (vi) the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them, and (vii) the obligations of the Issuer under Section 3.2) and the Trustee, on demand of the Issuer accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Issuer, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging such satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture; provided, that the rights of Holders of the Securities and Coupons to receive amounts in respect of principal of and interest on the Securities and Coupons held by them shall not be delayed longer than required by then-applicable mandatory rules or policies of any securities exchange upon which the Securities are listed. The Issuer agrees to reimburse the Trustee for any costs or expenses thereafter reasonably and properly incurred and to compensate the Trustee for any services thereafter reasonably and properly rendered by the Trustee in connection with this Indenture or the Securities of such series.
          (B) The following provisions shall apply to the Securities of each series unless specifically otherwise provided in a Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate or indenture supplemental hereto provided pursuant to Section 2.3. In addition to discharge of the Indenture pursuant to the next preceding paragraph, in the case of any series of Securities the exact amounts (including the currency of payment) of principal of and interest due on which can be determined at the time of making the deposit referred to in clause (a) below, the Issuer shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness on all the Securities of such a series and the Coupons appertaining thereto on the date of the deposit referred to in subparagraph (a) below, and the provisions of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto shall no longer be in effect (except as to (i) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Securities of such series and of Coupons appertaining thereto pursuant to Section 2.8 and the Issuer's right of optional redemption, if any, (ii) substitution of mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or Coupons, (iii) rights of Holders of Securities and Coupons appertaining thereto to receive payments of principal thereof and interest thereon, upon the original stated due dates therefor (but not upon acceleration), and remaining rights of the Holders to receive mandatory sinking fund payments, if any, (iv) any optional redemption rights of such series of Securities to the extent to be exercised to make such call for redemption within one year, (v) the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, (vi) the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them and (vii) the obligations of the Issuer under Section 3.2) and the Trustee, at the expense of the Issuer, shall at the Issuer's request, execute proper instruments acknowledging the same, if
     (a) with reference to this provision the Issuer has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto (i) cash in an amount, or (ii) in the case of any series of Securities the payments on which may only be made in Dollars, U.S. Government Obligations, maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will insure the availability of cash or (iii) a combination thereof,
 
sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay (A) the principal and interest on all Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto on each date that such principal or interest is due and payable and (b) any mandatory sinking fund payments on the dates on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Securities of such series;
     (b) such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it is bound;
     (c) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel based on the fact that (x) the Issuer has received from, or there has been published by, the IRS a ruling or (y) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable United States Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto will not recognize income, gain or loss for United States Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to United States Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times, as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred; and
     (d) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to the defeasance contemplated by this provision have been complied with.
          (C) The Issuer shall be released from its obligations under Sections 3.6 and 9.1 and unless otherwise provided for in the Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate or Indenture supplemental hereto establishing such series of Securities, from all covenants and other obligations referred to in Section 2.3(19) or 2.3(21) with respect to such series of Securities, and any Coupons appertaining thereto, outstanding on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"). For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of any series, the Issuer may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in such Section, whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to such Section or by reason of any reference in such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 5.1, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities and Coupons shall be unaffected thereby. The following shall be the conditions to application of this subsection C of this Section 10.1:
     (a) The Issuer has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the holders of the Securities of such series and coupons appertaining thereto, (i) cash in an amount, or (ii) in the case of any series of Securities the payments on which may only be made in Dollars, U.S. Government Obligations maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will insure the availability of cash or (iii) a combination thereof,
 
sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay (A) the principal and interest on all Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereof and (B) any mandatory sinking fund payments on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Securities of such series;
     (b) No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit;
     (c) Such covenant defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest as defined in Section 6.9 and for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any securities of the Issuer;
     (d) Such covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under any agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or by which it is bound;
     (e) Such covenant defeasance shall not cause any Securities then listed on any registered national securities exchange under the Exchange Act to be delisted;
     (f) The Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Securities of such series and Coupons appertaining thereto will not recognize income, gain or loss for United States Federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to United States Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred; and
     (g) The Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to the covenant defeasance contemplated by this provision have been complied with.
          . Subject to Section 10.4, all moneys deposited with the Trustee (or other trustee) pursuant to Section 10.1 shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Issuer acting as its own paying agent), to the Holders of the particular Securities of such series and of Coupons appertaining thereto for the payment or redemption of which such moneys have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
SECTION 10.2 APPLICATION BY TRUSTEE OF FUNDS DEPOSITED FOR PAYMENT OF SECURITIES
          . In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to Securities of any series, all moneys then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this Indenture with respect to such series of Securities shall, upon demand of the Issuer, be repaid to it or paid to the
SECTION 10.3 REPAYMENT OF MONEYS HELD BY PAYING AGENT
 
Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys.
          . Any moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security of any series and of any Coupons attached thereto and not applied but remaining unclaimed for two years after the date upon which such principal or interest shall have become due and payable, shall, upon the written request of the Issuer and unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be repaid to the Issuer by the Trustee for such series or such paying agent, and the Holder of the Securities of such series and of any Coupons appertaining thereto shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property laws, thereafter look only to the Issuer for any payment which such Holder may be entitled to collect, and all liability of the Trustee or any paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease; provided, that the Trustee or such paying agent, before being required to make any such repayment with respect to moneys deposited with it for any payment (a) in respect of Registered Securities of any series, shall at the expense of the Issuer, mail by first-class mail to Holders of such Securities at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security register, and (b) in respect of Unregistered Securities of any series, shall at the expense of the Issuer cause to the published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), notice, that such moneys remain and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than thirty days from the date of such mailing or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Issuer.
SECTION 10.4 RETURN OF MONEYS HELD BY TRUSTEE AND PAYING AGENT UNCLAIMED FOR TWO YEARS
          . The Issuer shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 10.1 or the principal or interest received in respect of such obligations.
SECTION 10.5 INDEMNITY FOR U.S. GOVERNMENT OF OBLIGATIONS
          . Unless otherwise expressly established pursuant to Section 2.3 with respect to the Subordinated Securities of any series, the provisions of Section 11.13 hereof, insofar as they pertain to the Subordinated Securities of such series, and the Subordination Provisions established pursuant to Section 2.3(9) with respect to such series, are hereby expressly made subject to the provisions for satisfaction and discharge and defeasance and covenant defeasance set forth in Section 10.1 hereof and, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, upon the effectiveness of such satisfaction and discharge and defeasance and covenant defeasance pursuant to Section 10.1 with respect to the Securities of such series, such Securities shall thereupon cease to be so subordinated and shall no longer be subject to the provisions of Section 11.13 or the Subordination Provisions established pursuant to Section 2.3(9) with respect to such series and, without limitation to the foregoing, all moneys, U.S. Government Obligations and other securities or property deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) in trust in connection with such satisfaction and discharge, defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, and all proceeds therefrom may be applied to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on, and mandatory sinking fund payments, if any, with respect to the Securities
SECTION 10.6 EFFECT ON SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS
 
of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.13 or such Subordination Provisions.
          . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such, or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Issuer or of any successor, either directly or through the Issuer or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities and the Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto by the Holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities and the Coupons appertaining thereto.
SECTION 11.1 INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF ISSUER EXEMPT FROM INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY
          . Nothing in this Indenture, in the Securities or in the Coupons appertaining thereto, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties thereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities or Coupons, if any and, in the case of the Subordinated Securities of any series, the holders of Senior Indebtedness with respect to such series, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture or under any covenant or provision herein contained, all such covenants and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities or Coupons, if any and, in the case of the Subordinated Securities of any series, the holders of Senior Indebtedness with respect to such series.
SECTION 11.2 PROVISIONS OF INDENTURE FOR THE SOLE BENEFIT OF PARTIES AND HOLDERS OF SECURITIES AND COUPONS
          . All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or in behalf of the Issuer shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 11.3 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS OF ISSUER BOUND BY INDENTURE
          . Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or Coupons, if any, to or on the Issuer may be given or served by being deposited postage prepaid, first-class mail (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) addressed (until another address of the Issuer is filed by the Issuer with the Trustee) to McKesson Corporation, McKesson Plaza, One Post Street, San Francisco, California 94104, Attention: Secretary. Any notice, direction, request or demand by the Issuer or any Holder of Securities or Coupons, if any, to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served by being deposited postage prepaid, first-class mail (except as otherwise specifically provided herein) addressed (until another address of the Trustee is filed by the
SECTION 11.4 NOTICES AND DEMANDS ON ISSUER, TRUSTEE AND HOLDERS OF SECURITIES AND COUPONS
 
Trustee with the Issuer) to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., 700 S. Flower Street, Suite 500, Los Angeles, California 90017, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
          Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Registered Securities, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder entitled thereto, at his last address as it appears in the Security register.
          The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon facsimile transmission of written instructions and/or directions pursuant to this Indenture given by the Company, provided, however that: (i) the Company, subsequent to such facsimile transmission of written instructions and/or directions, shall provide the originally executed instructions and/or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner and (ii) such originally executed instructions and/or directions shall be signed by an authorized officer of the Company.
          Where this Indenture provides for notice to holders of Unregistered Securities, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise expressly provided herein) by giving notice to such Holders (a) by publication of such notice at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, once in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), and (b) by mailing such notice to the Holders of Unregistered Securities who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 313(c)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee.
          In any case where notice to such Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
          In case, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service, it shall be impracticable to mail notice to the Issuer when such notice is required to the given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
          . Upon any application or demand by the Issuer to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
SECTION 11.5 OFFICER'S CERTIFICATES AND OPINIONS OF COUNSEL; STATEMENTS TO BE CONTAINED THEREIN
 
          Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (a) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition, (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based, (c) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with and (d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
          Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Issuer may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of or representations by counsel, unless such officer knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous. Any certificate, statement or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters or information with respect to which is in the possession of the Issuer, upon the certificate, statement or opinion of or representations by an officer or officers of the Issuer, unless such counsel knows that the certificate, statement or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous.
          Any certificate, statement or opinion of an officer of the Issuer or of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of or representations by an accountant or firm of accountants in the employ of the Issuer, unless such officer or counsel, as the case may be, knows that the certificate or opinion of or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his certificate, statement or opinion may be based as aforesaid are erroneous, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know that the same are erroneous.
          Any certificate or opinion of any independent firm of public accountants filed with and directed to the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent.
          . If the date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Securities of any series or any Coupons appertaining thereto or the date fixed for redemption or repayment of any such Security or Coupon shall not be a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date.
SECTION 11.6 PAYMENTS DUE ON SATURDAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
          . If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with duties imposed by, or with another provision (an "incorporated provision") included in this Indenture by operation of Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control.
SECTION 11.7 CONFLICT OF ANY PROVISION OF INDENTURE WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT
 
          .
SECTION 11.8 NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
THIS INDENTURE AND EACH SECURITY AND COUPON SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SUCH STATE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW AND NEW YORK CIVIL PRACTICE LAWS AND RULES 327(b).
          
EACH OF THE ISSUER AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
          . This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 11.9 COUNTERPARTS
          . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 11.10 EFFECT OF HEADINGS
          . Unless otherwise specified in an Officer's Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.3 of this Indenture with respect to a particular series of Securities, whenever for purposes of this Indenture any action may be taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of Securities of all series or all series affected by a particular action at the time Outstanding and, at such time, there are Outstanding Securities of any series which are denominated in a Foreign Currency, then the principal amount of Securities of such series which shall be deemed to be Outstanding for the purpose of taking such action shall be that amount of Dollars that could be obtained for such amount at the Market Exchange Rate. For purposes of this Section 11.11, Market Exchange Rate shall mean the noon Dollar buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of such currency or currencies as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date. If such Market Exchange Rate is not available for any reason with respect to such currency, the Trustee shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or quotations from one or more major banks in The City of New York or in the country of issue of the currency in question, which for purposes of the euro shall be any member state of the European Union that has adopted the euro, as the Trustee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply in determining the equivalent principal amount in respect of Securities of a series denominated in a currency other than Dollars in connection with any action taken by Holders of Securities pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
SECTION 11.11 SECURITIES IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY
          All decisions and determinations of the Trustee regarding the Market Exchange Rate or any alternative determination provided for in the preceding paragraph shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive to the extent permitted by law for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Issuer and all Holders.
 
          . The Issuer agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of or interest on the Securities of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such day is not a New York Banking Day, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day preceding the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "New York Banking Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
SECTION 11.12 JUDGMENT CURRENCY
          . The Issuer, for itself, its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees, and each Holder of Subordinated Securities of any series by his acceptance thereof, likewise covenants and agrees, that the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on, and mandatory sinking fund payments, if any, in respect of each and all of the Subordinated Securities of such series shall be expressly subordinated, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Subordination Provisions established with respect to the Subordinated Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2.3(9) hereof, in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness with respect to such series.
SECTION 11.13 AGREEMENT TO SUBORDINATE
          In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
SECTION 11.14 FORCE MAJEURE.
 
          . The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to the Securities of any series which are redeemable before their maturity or to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.3 for Securities of such series.
SECTION 12.1 APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE
          . Notice of redemption to the Holders of Registered Securities of any series to be redeemed as a whole or in part at the option of the Issuer shall be given by mailing notice of such redemption by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to such Holders of Securities of such series at their last addresses as they shall appear upon the registry books. Notice of redemption to the Holders of Unregistered Securities to be redeemed as a whole or in part, who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 313(c)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be given by mailing notice of such redemption, by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least 30 days and not more than 60 prior to the date fixed for redemption, to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee (and, in the case of any such notice given by the Issuer, the Trustee shall make such information available to the Issuer for such purpose). Notice of redemption to all other Holders of Unregistered Securities shall be published in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and in an Authorized Newspaper in London (and, if required by Section 3.7, in an Authorized Newspaper in Luxembourg), in each case, once in each of three successive calendar weeks, the first publication to be not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives the notice. Failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of such Security of such series.
SECTION 12.2 NOTICE OF REDEMPTION; PARTIAL REDEMPTIONS
          The notice of redemption to each such Holder shall identify the Securities to be redeemed (including CUSIP number(s)) and specify the aggregate principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price, the place or places of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Securities and, in the case of Securities with Coupons attached thereto, of all Coupons appertaining thereto maturing after the date fixed for redemption, that such redemption is pursuant to the mandatory or optional sinking fund, or both, if such be the case, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in such notice and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue. In case any Security of a series is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption to Holders of Securities of the series shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that on and after the date fixed for redemption, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.
 
          The notice of redemption of Securities of any series to be redeemed at the option of the Issuer shall be given by the Issuer or, at the Issuer's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Issuer.
          On or before 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section, the Issuer will deposit with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Issuer is acting as its own paying agent, set aside, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 3.4) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Securities of such series so called for redemption at the appropriate redemption price, together with accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption. The Issuer will deliver to the Trustee at least 70 days prior to the date fixed for redemption, or such shorter period as shall be acceptable to the Trustee, an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be redeemed. In case of a redemption at the election of the Issuer prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption, the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to Holders pursuant to this Section, an Officer's Certificate stating that such restriction has been complied with.
          If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, in such manner as it shall deemed appropriate and fair, in its sole discretion, Securities of such series to be redeemed in whole or in part. Securities may be redeemed in part in multiples equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series or any multiple thereof. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer in writing of the Securities of such series selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities of such series selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities of any series shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
          . If notice of redemption has been given as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after said date (unless the Issuer shall default in the payment of such Securities at the redemption price, together with interest accrued to said date) interest on the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, and the unmatured Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto shall be void, and, except as provided in Sections 6.5 and 10.4, such Securities shall cease from and after the date fixed for redemption to be entitled to any benefit or security under this Indenture, and the Holders thereof shall have no right in respect of such Securities except the right to receive the redemption price thereof and unpaid interest to the date fixed for redemption. On presentation and surrender of such Securities at a place of payment specified in said notice, together with all Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the date fixed for redemption, said Securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Issuer at the applicable redemption price, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption; provided, that payment of interest becoming due on or prior to the date fixed for redemption shall be payable in the case of Securities with Coupons attached thereto, to the Holders of the Coupons for such interest upon surrender thereof, and in the case of Registered Securities, to the Holder of such Registered
SECTION 12.3 PAYMENT OF SECURITIES CALLED FOR REDEMPTION
 
Securities registered as such on the relevant record date, subject to the terms and provisions of Section 2.3 and 2.7 hereof.
          If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid or duly provided for, bear interest from the date fixed for redemption at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security) borne by such Security.
          If any Security with Coupons attached thereto is surrendered for redemption and is not accompanied by all appurtenant Coupons maturing after the date fixed for redemption, the surrender of such missing Coupon or Coupons may be waived by the Issuer and the Trustee, if there be furnished to each of them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them harmless.
          Upon presentation of any Security redeemed in part only, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or on the order of the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Security or Securities of such series, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.
          . Securities shall be excluded from eligibility for selection for redemption if they are identified by registration and certificate number in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee at least 40 days prior to the last date on which notice of redemption may be given as being owned of record and beneficially by, and not pledged or hypothecated by, either (a) the Issuer or (b) an entity specifically identified in such written statement as directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer.
SECTION 12.4 EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN SECURITIES FROM ELIGIBILITY FOR SELECTION FOR REDEMPTION
          . The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of the Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of the Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." The date on which a sinking fund payment is to be made is herein referred to as the "sinking fund payment date."
SECTION 12.5 MANDATORY AND OPTIONAL SINKING FUNDS
          In lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any series of Securities in cash, the Issuer may at its option (a) deliver to the Trustee Securities of such series theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired (except upon redemption pursuant to the mandatory sinking fund) by the Issuer or receive credit for Securities of such series (not previously so credited) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired (except as aforesaid) by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for cancellation pursuant to Section 2.10, (b) receive credit for optional sinking fund payments (not previously so credited) made pursuant to this Section, or (c) receive credit for Securities of such series (not previously so credited) redeemed by the Issuer through any optional redemption provision contained in the terms of such series. Securities so delivered or credited shall be received or credited by the Trustee at the sinking fund redemption price specified in such Securities.
 
          On or before the 60th day next preceding each sinking fund payment date for any series, the Issuer will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate (which need not contain the statements required by Section 11.5) (a) specifying the portion of the mandatory sinking fund payment to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion to be satisfied by credit of Securities of such series and the basis for such credit, (b) stating that none of the Securities of such series has theretofore been so credited, (c) stating that no defaults in the payment of interest or Events of Default with respect to such series have occurred (which have not been waived or cured) and are continuing and (d) stating whether or not the Issuer intends to exercise its right to make an optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series and, if so, specifying the amount of such optional sinking fund payment which the Issuer intends to pay on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. Any Securities of such series to be credited and required to be delivered to the Trustee in order for the Issuer to be entitled to credit therefor as aforesaid which have not theretofore been delivered to the Trustee shall be delivered for cancellation pursuant to Section 2.10 to the Trustee with such Officer's Certificate (or reasonably promptly thereafter if acceptable to the Trustee). Such Officer's Certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its receipt by the Trustee, the Issuer shall become unconditionally obligated to make all the cash payments or payments therein referred to, if any, on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. Failure of the Issuer, on or before any such 60th day, to deliver such Officer's Certificate and Securities specified in this paragraph, if any, shall not constitute a default but shall constitute, on and as of such date, the irrevocable election of the Issuer (i) that the mandatory sinking fund payment for such series due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date shall be paid entirely in cash without the option to deliver or credit Securities of such series in respect thereof and (ii) that the Issuer will make no optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series as provided in this Section.
          If the sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional or both) to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments made in cash shall exceed $50,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency) or a lesser sum in Dollars (or the equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency) if the Issuer shall so request with respect to the Securities of any particular series, such cash shall be applied on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date to the redemption of Securities of such series at the sinking fund redemption price together with accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption. If such amount shall be $50,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency) or less and the Issuer makes no such request then it shall be carried over until a sum in excess of $50,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency) is available. The Trustee shall select, in the manner provided in Section 12.2, for redemption on such sinking fund payment date a sufficient principal amount of Securities of such series to absorb said cash, as nearly as may be, and shall (if requested in writing by the Issuer) inform the Issuer of the serial numbers of the Securities of such series (or portions thereof) so selected. Securities shall be excluded from eligibility for redemption under this Section if they are identified by registration and certificate number in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee at least 60 days prior to the sinking fund payment date as being owned of record and beneficially by, and not pledged or hypothecated by, either (a) the Issuer or (b) an entity specifically identified in such Officer's Certificate as directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuer. The Trustee, in the name and at the expense of the Issuer (or the Issuer, if it shall so request the Trustee in writing) shall cause notice of redemption of the Securities of such series to be given in substantially the manner provided in Section 12.2 (and
 
with the effect provided in Section 12.3) for the redemption of Securities of such series in part at the option of the Issuer. The amount of any sinking fund payments not so applied or allocated to the redemption of Securities of such series shall be added to the next cash sinking fund payment for such series and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Any and all sinking fund moneys held on the stated maturity date of the Securities of any particular series (or earlier, if such maturity is accelerated), which are not held for the payment or redemption of particular Securities of such series shall be applied, together with other moneys, if necessary, sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Securities of such series at maturity.
          On or before each sinking fund payment date, the Issuer shall pay to the Trustee in cash or shall otherwise provide for the payment of all interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption on Securities to be redeemed on the next following sinking fund payment date.
          The Trustee shall not redeem or cause to be redeemed any Securities of a series with sinking fund moneys or give any notice of redemption of Securities for such series by operation of the sinking fund during the continuance of a default in payment of interest on such Securities or of any Event of Default except that, where the giving of notice of redemption of any Securities shall theretofore have been made, the Trustee shall redeem or cause to be redeemed such Securities, provided that it shall have received from the Issuer a sum sufficient for such redemption. Except as aforesaid, any moneys in the sinking fund for such series at the time when any such default or Event of Default shall occur, and any moneys thereafter paid into the sinking fund, shall, during the continuance of such default or Event of Default be deemed to have been collected under Article Five and held for the payment of all such Securities. In case such Event of Default shall have been waived as provided in Section 5.10 or the default cured on or before the sixtieth day preceding the sinking fund payment date in any year, such moneys shall thereafter be applied on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date in accordance with this Section to the redemption of such Securities.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 4.2
     The undersigned, McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby certifies through Nicholas A. Loiacono, its Vice President and Treasurer, pursuant to Sections 2.1, 2.3 and 11.5 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), by and between the Company, as Issuer, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as Trustee, as follows:
     1. The form and terms of the 5.25% Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes"), as set forth on attached hereto, and the form and terms of the 5.70% Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes"), as set forth on attached hereto, have been established pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.3 of the Indenture and comply with the Indenture.
Annex A
Annex B
     2. The undersigned has read the Indenture.
     3. The statements made in this certificate are based upon an examination of the 2013 Notes and the 2017 Notes under the Indenture, upon an examination of and familiarity with the Indenture, upon my general knowledge of and familiarity with the operations of the Company and upon the performance of my duties as an officer of the Company.
     4. In the opinion of the undersigned, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the covenants and conditions provided for in the Indenture have been complied with.
     5. In the opinion of the undersigned, with respect to the foregoing, the covenants and conditions provided for in the Indenture have been complied with.
     Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this certificate to be executed by its duly authorized officer as of this 5th day of March, 2007.
 
ANNEX A
     Pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), between McKesson Corporation (the "Issuer") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), the terms of a series of securities to be issued pursuant to the Indenture are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Annex A shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
 
ANNEX A-1
 
THIS NOTE IS A REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
     McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to, Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Five Hundred Million Dollars ($500,000,000) on March 1, 2013 and to pay interest on said principal sum from March 5, 2007, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") of each year commencing on September 1, 2007, at the rate of 5.25% per annum until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable.
     The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which the principal or interest payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of principal or interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay). The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof) be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15 prior to such Interest Payment Date, as applicable. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders on such record date and may be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest), notice whereof shall be given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the registered holders of Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on this Note shall be payable at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in any coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the registry books of the
provided, however,
 
Issuer; that for so long as this Note is represented by a Registered Global Security, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on this Note may be made by wire transfer to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
provided, further
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee (as defined below) under the Indenture (as defined below), by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     Capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile, and an imprint or facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
Attest:
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.           as Trustee
 
     This Note is one of a duly authorized series of securities (the "Securities") of the Issuer designated as its 5.25% Notes due March 1, 2013 (the "Notes"). The Securities are all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Issuer, the Trustee and the holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms of individual series of Securities may vary with respect to interest rate or interest rate formulas, issue dates, maturity, redemption, repayment, currency of payment and otherwise.
     The Notes are issuable only as Registered Securities in minimum denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
     Except as set forth below, this Note is not redeemable and is not entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund or any analogous provision.
     The Notes may be redeemed, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Issuer at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) an amount, as determined by the Quotation Agent, equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date. Holders of the Notes will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Banc of America Securities LLC (or its affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and its successors; provided, however, that if any of the
 
foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that redemption date.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
     If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"). In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will be required to mail a notice to holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures described herein and in such notice. The Issuer must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other Notes laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions herein, the Issuer will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
     On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will be required, to the extent lawful, to (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased.
     "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer
 
and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person other than the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Issuer's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be involve a Change of Control if (i) the Issuer becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of our voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
     "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
     "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Issuer who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of original issue of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
     "Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
     "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
     "Person" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
     "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the notes or fails to make a rating of the notes publicly available for reasons outside of our control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
     If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities or Subordinated Securities, as the case may be, of all series issued under such Indenture then outstanding and affected (each voting as one class), to add any provisions to, or change in any manner, eliminate or waive any of the provisions of, such Indenture or modify in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series or Coupons so affected; that the Issuer and the Trustee may not,
provided
 
without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (i) extend the final maturity of the principal of any Security or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof or change the currency in which the principal thereof (other than as otherwise may be provided with respect to such series), premium, if any, or interest thereon is payable or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that is payable upon acceleration or provable in bankruptcy, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter certain provisions of the Indenture relating to Securities not denominated in Dollars or the Judgment Currency of such Securities or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of each such series, each such series voting as a separate class (or, of all Securities, as the case may be voting as a single class) may under certain circumstances waive all defaults with respect to each such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul a declaration of default and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereto. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the registry books of the Issuer, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee duly executed by, the holder hereof or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
 
 
ANNEX B
     Pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), between McKesson Corporation (the "Issuer") and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), the terms of a series of securities to be issued pursuant to the Indenture are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Annex B shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
 
ANNEX B-1
 
THIS NOTE IS A REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS REGISTERED GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
     McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to, Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Five Hundred Million Dollars ($500,000,000) on March 1, 2017 and to pay interest on said principal sum from March 5, 2007, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") of each year commencing on September 1, 2007, at the rate of 5.70% per annum until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable.
     The amount of interest payable on any Interest Payment Date shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which the principal or interest payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then payment of principal or interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay). The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (referred to on the reverse hereof) be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the record date for such interest installment, which shall be the close of business on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15 prior to such Interest Payment Date, as applicable. Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holders on such record date and may be paid to the person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date (which shall be not less than five Business Days prior to the date of payment of such defaulted interest), notice whereof shall be given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the registered holders of Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on this Note shall be payable at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in any coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Issuer by check mailed to the person entitled thereto at such address as shall appear in the registry books of the
provided, however,
 
Issuer; that for so long as this Note is represented by a Registered Global Security, payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on this Note may be made by wire transfer to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
provided, further
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee (as defined below) under the Indenture (as defined below), by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     Capitalized terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     The provisions of this Note are continued on the reverse side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed, manually or in facsimile, and an imprint or facsimile of its corporate seal to be imprinted hereon.
Attest:
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Note is one of a duly authorized series of securities (the "Securities") of the Issuer designated as its 5.70% Notes due March 1, 2017 (the "Notes"). The Securities are all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), duly executed and delivered between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor Trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture), to which the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Issuer, the Trustee and the holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Notes are to be authenticated and delivered. The terms of individual series of Securities may vary with respect to interest rate or interest rate formulas, issue dates, maturity, redemption, repayment, currency of payment and otherwise.
     The Notes are issuable only as Registered Securities in minimum denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
     Except as set forth below, this Note is not redeemable and is not entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund or any analogous provision.
     The Notes may be redeemed, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the option of the Issuer at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount and (ii) an amount, as determined by the Quotation Agent, equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date. Holders of the Notes will receive notice thereof at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Issuer defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate.
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
     "Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Issuer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Banc of America Securities LLC (or its affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and its successors; provided, however, that if any of the
 
foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Issuer shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Issuer.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that redemption date.
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
     If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described above, holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of their Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"). In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Issuer will be required to mail a notice to holders of the Notes describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures described herein and in such notice. The Issuer must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other Notes laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions herein, the Issuer will be required to comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions herein by virtue of such conflicts.
     On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer will be required, to the extent lawful, to (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased.
     "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Issuer
 
and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person other than the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Issuer's voting stock; or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to be involve a Change of Control if (i) the Issuer becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of our voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
     "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
     "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Issuer who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of original issue of this Security; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
     "Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
     "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
     "Person" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and includes a "person" as used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
     "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the notes or fails to make a rating of the notes publicly available for reasons outside of our control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Issuer (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
     If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Securities or Subordinated Securities, as the case may be, of all series issued under such Indenture then outstanding and affected (each voting as one class), to add any provisions to, or change in any manner, eliminate or waive any of the provisions of, such Indenture or modify in any manner the rights of the holders of the Securities of each series or Coupons so affected; that the Issuer and the Trustee may not,
provided
 
without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (i) extend the final maturity of the principal of any Security or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium thereon, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof or change the currency in which the principal thereof (other than as otherwise may be provided with respect to such series), premium, if any, or interest thereon is payable or reduce the amount of the principal of any Original Issue Discount Security that is payable upon acceleration or provable in bankruptcy, or in the case of Subordinated Securities of any series, modify any of the subordination provisions or the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" relating to such series in a manner adverse to the holders of such Subordinated Securities, or alter certain provisions of the Indenture relating to Securities not denominated in Dollars or the Judgment Currency of such Securities or impair or affect the right of any Securityholder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment thereof when due or, if the Securities provide therefor, any right of repayment at the option of the Securityholder or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the consent of the holders of which is required for any such modification. It is also provided in the Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount Outstanding of the Securities of each such series, each such series voting as a separate class (or, of all Securities, as the case may be voting as a single class) may under certain circumstances waive all defaults with respect to each such series (or with respect to all the Securities, as the case may be) and rescind and annul a declaration of default and its consequences, but no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereto. The preceding sentence shall not, however, apply to a default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered on the registry books of the Issuer, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer and the Trustee duly executed by, the holder hereof or by its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Issuer, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW.
 

 
Exhibit 5.1
March 5, 2007
McKesson Corporation McKesson Plaza, One Post Street San Francisco, California 94104
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          We have acted as special counsel to McKesson Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.25% Notes due March 1, 2013 and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.70% Notes due March 1, 2017 (collectively, the "Securities"), issuable pursuant to an indenture dated March 5, 2007 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). On February 28, 2007, the Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), with Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), relating to the sale by the Company to the Underwriters of the Securities.
          This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
          In rendering the opinions set forth herein, we have examined and relied on originals or copies of the following:
 
McKesson Corporation March 5, 2007 Page 2
          We also have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates and receipts of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth below.
          In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as
 
McKesson Corporation March 5, 2007 Page 3
originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as facsimile, electronic, certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such copies. In making our examination of executed documents, we have assumed that the parties thereto, other than the Company, had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and the execution and delivery by such parties of such documents and the validity and binding effect thereof on such parties. We have also assumed that the execution and delivery by the Company of the Indenture and the Securities, as applicable, and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under (i) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its properties is subject, (ii) any law, rule, or regulation to which the Company or any of its properties is subject, (iii) any judicial or regulatory order or decree of any governmental authority or (iv) any consent, approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with any governmental authority. As to any facts material to the opinions expressed herein that we did not independently establish or verify, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others and of public officials.
          The opinions set forth below are subject to the following further qualifications, assumptions and limitations:
     (a) the validity or enforcement of any agreements or instruments may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
     (b) we do not express any opinion as to the applicability or effect of any fraudulent transfer, preference or similar law on the Securities; and
     (c) to the extent any opinion relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions of any agreement or instrument, our opinion is rendered in reliance upon N.Y. Gen. Oblig. Law 5-1401, 5-1402 (McKinney 2001) and N.Y. C.P.L.R. 327(b) (McKinney 2001) and is subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by public policy considerations.
          Our opinions set forth herein are limited to the Delaware corporate law and the laws of the State of New York that, in our experience, are applicable to transactions of the type covered by the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture, and the Securities and, to
 
McKesson Corporation March 5, 2007 Page 4
the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as "Opined on Law"). We do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than Opined on Law or as to the effect of any such non-Opined on Law on the opinion herein, which laws are subject to change with possible retroactive effect.
          Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company, and when duly authenticated by the Trustee and issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
          We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable law.


